Steel talked between roses. Kintyre parried Yamamura's slash; his riposte thumped on the other man's arm.

"Touche!" exclaimed the detective. He took off his mask and wiped sweat from a long, high-cheeked face. "Or is it you who's supposed to say that? Anyhow, enough for today."

"You're not doing so badly, Trig," Kintyre told him. "And I have some revenge due for all those times you've had me cartwheeling through the air, down at the dojo."

Trygve Yamamura clicked his tongue. He stood over six feet tall, lanky, the Oriental half of him showing mostly in narrow black eyes and smoked-amber skin. "You would use sabers, wouldn't you?" he said.

Robert Kintyre shrugged. "A foil is for women and I'm not fast enough for an epee. Also, there's professional interest. A saber is a wee bit closer to the Renaissance weapon."

"I think I'll stick to Japanese swords."

Kintyre nodded. He was a stocky man of medium height, with straight dark hair above a square, snub-nosed, sallow-complexioned face. His eyes were gray under level brows, and set unusually far apart; there was little else to mark him out physically, until you noticed his gait. To an only slightly lesser degree than Yamamura's, it had the indefinable compactness of a judo man.

They stood in a garden in Berkeley. Walls enclosed them: the main house, now vacant while its owner and family were on vacation; the three-room cottage to the rear which Kintyre rented; a board fence strewn with climbing blossoms on either side. Overhead lay a tall sky where the afternoon sun picked out the vapor trail of a jet sliding above San Francisco Bay.

"I agree, Samurai swords make these look like pitchforks," said Kintyre. "But you can't do much with them except collect them. Too damned effective!"

Yamamura removed his padded coat and fished for his pipe. "You off work now?" he asked.

"Yep. Last bloody paper corrected, last report in, term's over, and I'm not teaching again till fall. It's great, though impoverished, to be free."

"You're making a pack trip into Kings Canyon, aren't you?"

"Uh-huh. Bruce Lombardi and I were supposed to leave tomorrow. Only what the devil has become of Bruce?" Kintyre scowled. "His girl called me last night, said he'd left the day before—Saturday—and hadn't come back yet. She was worried. I'm beginning to be."

"Hm." Attentiveness flickered up in Yamamura. His agency, small and new, had no engagements at the moment. However, he spoke with no more than friendly concern. "Is it like the kid to go tearing off that way? I don't know him especially well, he's just somebody I meet now and then at your place."

"That's the point," said Kintyre. "It is not like him. The department head inquired about it this morning. Bruce hasn't turned in the grades for two of his classes; and he's disgustingly reliable, normally." He paused. "On the other hand, he's having his troubles these days and—anyhow, I hesitate to—"

Footsteps sounded in the driveway. A trim quasi-military shape came around the house.

"Officer Moffat," said Yamamura. He had belonged to the Berkeley force until he set up for himself. "What's happened?"

"Hello, Trig," said the policeman. He turned to the other. "Are you Professor Robert Kintyre?"

"Assistant professor only, no cobwebs yet." Why did he answer with a bad joke, he wondered—postponing something?

"How do you do. I'm sorry to bother you, sir, but we're trying to identify a young man who was found dead this morning. I was told that someone of his description was a teaching assistant in the history department, and that you knew him best."

The voice was sympathetic, but Kintyre stood very quietly for a moment. Then: "I know a lot of young men, but perhaps—Bruce Lombardi?"

"That's the name I was given," said Moffat. "I'm told you were his faculty adviser."

"Yes." Kintyre pawed blindly after a cigarette, meeting only his jacket. "How did he come to die?"

"If it is him. Do you think you could identify him for us? I warn you, it isn't pretty."

"I've seen dead men before," said Kintyre. "Come on." He started toward the street.

"Your clothes," said Moffat gently.

"Oh, yes. Yes. Thanks." Kintyre fumbled at his equipment. He threw it on the grass. "Put this junk away for me, will you, Trig?" His voice was uncertain. "I'll call you later."

"Sure," said Yamamura in a low tone. "Call me anytime."

Kintyre followed Moffat to the police car. It nosed off the shabby-genteel residential street and into southbound traffic. Moffat, at the wheel, pointed to the cigarette lighter.

Kintyre put tobacco smoke into his lungs and insisted: "What happened?"

"He seems to have been murdered." Moffat's eyes flickered sideways along his passenger's wide shoulders, down to the thick wrists and hands. "We'll go to headquarters first, if you don't mind, and you can talk to Inspector Harries."

In the following time, at the office, Kintyre answered many questions. Inspector Harries seemed to have little doubt who his corpse was, but much uncertainty about everything else.

"Bruce Lombardi. Age twenty-four, did you say? Five feet nine, slender build, brown eyes, curly brown hair—m-hm. Did he wear glasses?"

"Yes. He was nearsighted. Horn rims."

"What kind of clothes did he ordinarily pick?"

"Anything he got his hands on. He was a sloppy dresser. I remember—no, never mind."

"Please tell me, Dr. Kintyre. It may have some bearing."

"Hardly. This was about five years ago. I was an assistant bucking for an instructorship, he was a freshman with a major in my department—history, did I tell you? There was some kind of scholastic tea or something—semiformal—you know. He showed up in a secondhand tweed jacket and an old pair of khaki wash pants. He honestly thought they were suitable for—Never mind. It seemed funny at the time."

Kintyre stubbed out his cigarette (the fifth, sixth, twentieth?) and took a deep breath. He was letting this run away with him, he thought. He was yattering like an old woman, shaken into brainlessness. It was not as if he had never encountered death before.

He groped toward the teaching of the dojo, the judo school. Judo is only in part a sport; it is also a philosophy, the Gentle Way, with many aspects, and the first thing to learn is to relax utterly. The passive man is prepared for anything, for he can himself become anything.

But it was an unreal attempt. Kintyre's interest in judo was a superficial growth of a few years; his roots lay in the West. He understood with sudden bleakness why Bruce's death had so clamped on him: once again someone he cared for was gone, and the horror he had borne for two decades stirred toward awakening.

"Don't you feel well, Dr. Kintyre?"

Harries leaned over the desk, politely concerned. "I'm sorry to put you to a strain like this. If you want to rest a while—"

"No." Kintyre mustered a degree of steadiness. "I was a bit shaken, but—Go ahead. If Bruce really was murdered, I certainly want to give you any help I can finding who did it."

The inspector regarded him thoughtfully. "You and he were pretty close, weren't you?"

"In a way. He was almost eleven years younger than I, and had lived a—limited life. Not sheltered in the usual sense, his family being poor, but limited. And he was such a peaceful fellow, and his life since entering college had been mostly books. It made him seem even younger."

Kintyre sighed. "We got to be about as friendly as one can get under such circumstances," he finished. "Maybe I looked on him as a son. Not being married, I can't be sure of that."

"Did he ever say anything which led you to believe that he might be in serious trouble?"

"No. Absolutely not. That is, I knew his older brother hung—hangs around with a dubious crowd over in San Francisco, and it distressed him, but he never implied anything really bad was involved."

"Let's see." Harries looked at some notes. "I gather he left his, uh, girl friend's place about six P.M. Saturday, telling her he had business over in the City and she shouldn't wait up. She got worried and checked with you Sunday evening. And he was found by a patrol car this morning, at daybreak, on the bank of the old frontage road, near the Ashby Avenue turnoff."

"You've worked fast," said Kintyre. Or did I tell you all this? he wondered. There are a few minutes which I remember only hazily. I was so busy fighting myself.

"What did you do over the weekend?" asked Harries in a casual tone.

"Oh, let's see—Saturday morning I puttered around down at the yacht harbor, doing some work on my boat. I went home in the afternoon, graded papers and so on, went out at night and had a few beers with a friend—Dr. Levinson of the physiology department. Sunday morning I took a sail on the Bay, and later finished my paperwork. Shortly after Miss Towne had called me, I was invited over to Gerald Clayton's suite at the Fairhill. We had some drinks and talked till quite late. This morning I turned in my last reports to the University, came home, and was horsing around with Trig Yamamura when your man arrived."

"You seem pretty well alibied," smiled Harries. "Not that we suspect anyone on this side of the Bay."

"Why not?"

Harries' mouth tightened. "Dr. Kintyre, you'll undoubtedly be asked a great many more questions in the next several days. Get the worst over with now. Then go out with some friends and have a lot more drinks. That's my advice."

They shook hands, feeling it was a somehow theatrical gesture, and thus being embarrassed without knowing how to avoid it. Moffat drove Kintyre through miles of city, down to that place in Oakland where the dead man was kept.

They entered a chill room. Kintyre took the lead, compulsively. He went to the sheeted thing and uncovered it.

After a while he turned around. "Bruce Lombardi," he said. "Yes."

"I'm sorry you—Oh, hell." Moffat looked away. "He was a sort of handsome young chap, wasn't he? Thin regular features and so on. I'll bet his parents were proud of him."

"They paid his undergraduate expenses," mumbled Kintyre. "Since then he went ahead on scholarships and assistantships, but those were four high-priced years for a poor family."

"And now they'll see this. Hell." Moffat stood with fingers doubled together, talking fast. He himself was rather young, more shaken than his superiors would have wished. "Look at those burns—marks—He's like that all over. He was never unconscious once, unless he passed out now and then—no blackjack marks, no chloroform, just rope bruises. Then when he was dead, the murderers cut off his fingers and hacked his face some more, to make it harder for us to identify. Stuffed him into an old coat and pair of pants and left him half in the tidewater. Twenty-four years of age, did you say? This is what the old Lombardis have to show for their twenty-four years. Jesus Christ. I'll bet I have to take his father in here."

"You think it was a sadist?"

"Oh, sure, I don't doubt at least one of the murderers got his kicks. It takes a cracked brain to do something like this—even for money. Yes, I feel pretty sure it was a professional job. Most of the torture was systematic, almost neat, for a definite purpose. You can see that. When they reached their purpose, when he talked or whatever it was, they cut his throat—neatly—then mutilated him for a good logical reason, to make it harder for us, and disposed of the body in regular gangland style. They shouldn't have dumped him in Berkeley. The Berkeley force sees so many University people we automatically thought a nice-looking young fellow like this might belong on the campus, and checked. But that was their only mistake. Mine was going in for a job where I'll have to show this to his father."

"Must you?"

"It's the law. I wish it weren't."

Moffat moved to pull back the sheet, but Kintyre was there first. Covering Bruce's face made a kind of finality. Though the real closing curtain had fallen hours ago, he thought, when Bruce lifted hands torn, broken, and burned, to take death for his weariness. And afterward they cut his fingers off. Maybe the curtain had not been rung down yet.

2
By the time Kintyre got back, it was close to sunset. He entered a book-lined living room. There were a few good pictures, a small record player, his sabers hung on the wall by Trig, the furniture bought used or made out of old boxes—otherwise little. He did not believe in cluttering life with objects.

He poured himself a stiff drink. Glenlivet was his only expensive luxury. He sat down to savor it and perhaps think a little about Bruce. There was no solid reason why the boy should have made so large a niche in Kintyre's existence, but somehow he had. The emptiness hurt.

When the phone rang, Kintyre was there picking it up before consciousness of the noise registered. He was not surprised to hear Margery Towne's voice.

"Bob? You know?"

"Yes. I'm sorry. I wish to hell I could tell you just how sorry."

"I can guess." Her tone was flattened by the control she must be keeping on it. "We both loved him, didn't we?"

"I think everybody did."

"Somebody didn't, Bob."

"I suppose you heard through the police?"

"They were here a few minutes ago. Do they know everything?"

"Probably I gave them your name. They came to me first, for the identification."

"They were very nice about it and all that, but—"

Silence whistled remotely over the wires.

"Bob, could you come talk to me? Now?"

"Sure, pony. Give me half an hour."

Kintyre hung up one-handed, starting to undress with the other. He went through a shower and put on a suit in ten minutes.

Margery's apartment was catercorner from his, with the University between. He parked his battered '48 De Soto on the near side of the campus and walked across, hoping to hoof out some of the muscular tightness and set his thoughts in order.

Level yellow light came through eucalyptus groves to splash on a cropped greensward and pompous white buildings, almost bare of mankind in this pause between baccalaureate ceremonies and summer classes. Kintyre reflected vaguely that he would have to go through Bruce's desk, finish his work, yes, and complete his study of the Book of Witches.... His mind drifted off toward a worried practical consideration. What could he do about Margery?

He wanted to help her, if he could—double damnation, hadn't he tried before? At the same time he was not, repeat not, going to get himself involved. It would be unfair to both of them.

There were rules of the game, and so he had played it with her. You left wives and virgins alone: well, she was long divorced, and had slept around a bit since then. You neither gave to nor took from a woman. You made it perfectly clear you weren't interested in anything permanent. And when you broke it off, after a pleasant few months, you did it cleanly: he had the best excuse in the world, back in 1955, an academic grant that returned him to Italy for a year of research in his specialty, the Renaissance. (But she had been very quiet, the last few weeks; sometimes at night he had heard her trying not to cry.) Back home again, you didn't resume old affairs: you were simply friendly, on such occasions as you happened to meet.

Yes, of course. Only then she took up with Bruce, and Bruce had wanted to marry her, and she had plainly been considering it, and now Bruce was dead and Kintyre was on his way to console her. Could you walk in her door and say: "Hello, I still subscribe to the why-buy-a-cow philosophy so be careful, now you may weep on my shoulder"?

He realized he was sucking on a dead cigarette. He threw it away and stopped to light another. He was almost under the building which housed his own department.

"Good evening."

Kintyre looked up. Jabez Owens was walking toward him.

"Hello," he answered. "How are you? Excuse me, but I've got to—"

Owens reached him and took his hand. "My dear old chap," he said in his most Harvard accent, "I'm awfully sorry."

"Hm?"

"Young Lombardi. I saw it in the papers. You know?"

"Yes." Kintyre looked coldly at Owens. The writer was a tall man, the breadth of his shoulders attributable only in part to his tailor. He had straight ruddy features, dark wavy hair graying at the temples, blue eyes behind wrought-iron glasses, tweedy clothes with a scarf filling the V of the jacket, and a small calabash pipe in one pocket.

"I know he was murdered," said Kintyre, watching the other's face.

"Terrible. I remember once in Sumatra—but that was long ago. See here," said Owens candidly, "I know you know of my disagreements with the poor young fellow. Why, it was only—when? Thursday night we were at that party at Clayton's. You must have heard us quarreling over his silly thesis. But this! De mortuis nil nisi bonum."

Kintyre did not like Owens. It was not so much the scholar raising his hackles at a rather lurid popularizer. What the devil, Owens' books stirred up some public interest; they passed on some information, however distorted; and that was more than you could say for the average historiographic monograph. But during the whole week he had been in Berkeley, one long theatrical performance had gone on, with Jabez Owens the plot, dialogue, director, producer, star, supporting cast, and claque. It grew monotonous.

Wherefore Kintyre said maliciously: "I'll be completing that thesis for him. Doubtless I too will be forced to include a side glance at those Borgia letters of yours. But it'll take me a while, I don't have all the facts and deductions at my fingertips as he did. So I suggest you hurry to Hollywood and get that movie started."

Owens laughed a well gauged laugh, neither too loud for this posthumous argument nor too small to sound genuine. "I'd love to take you on," he said. "Nothing I like better than a good verbal fight, and that's what the boy was giving me. As a matter of fact, I may be staying here a few more days. Or maybe not. But what I really stopped you for was to offer my sympathy and ask if I could help."

"What with?" asked Kintyre. It stuck him as a bit of a coincidence that Owens had happened to be passing by this special building at this moment.

"Oh, I don't know. Nothing, I suppose. You seem headed toward his, ah—" Owens paused delicately—"his fiancee's place. I gathered from someone's remark, she lives in this area."

"Uh-huh."

"Charming girl. Poor Lombardi. She is so good a reason for not dying. Please give her my regrets. Ah—a moment more, if you will."

"Yes?" Kintyre was turning to go; he stopped.

Owens flushed. "Don't misunderstand me. It's none of my business, certainly. But I'd say at a guess I am a good fifteen years older than you, and perhaps—I suppose I needn't advise you. But I do want to help you. And her. See here, take her out tonight. I know they were living together. There'll be too many memories at her home." He nodded, almost awkwardly. "Pardon me. I have to go now. I'll be seeing you."

Kintyre stared after him. The deuce you say! I didn't think you had a genuine bone in your body.

He glanced at his watch. He was late. His steps lengthened, a hollow noise on the sunset pavement.

Past the elaborate south gate, down a few shop-lined blocks of Telegraph Avenue, then left, slightly uphill, along a street of rooming houses and small apartments. Margery's flat was here; or should you say it had been Bruce's? He had gotten his mail, discreetly, at another address (which must now be overrun with sight-seers)—but this was Theirs.

Kintyre went upstairs. Margery opened her door at his buzz and closed it again behind him.

Bruce had moved in with her during the Christmas holidays, half a year ago now, but the interior was still hers, airily modern. Starting on bluff and nerve and a jerkwater college's art degree, she had made herself important to a local firm of decorators. Bruce would have lived happily in a cave, if it had had book-shelves.

And yet somehow, thought Kintyre as he waited for Margery to speak—somehow, she had reshaped the place around him. The piano he played so well stood tuned for him; by now, most of the records were ones which he had shown her—quietly, even unconsciously—were good to have. She had matted and hung one of his inkbrush sketches, a view from Albany Hill toward the Golden Gate, whose contours brought you back for a second look.

And, of course, nearly all the books were his, and she had made an offside room into a study for him. When you added it up, maybe only the clothes and the parakeet were altogether her own.

I never affected her like this, thought Kintyre. Margery's apartments always felt nervous before. Somehow Bruce made this one peaceful.

"Hello," he said, for she was evidently not going to speak first.

"Hi." She went over to a glass-topped coffee table and opened a cigarette box. "Thanks for coming."

"No thanks needed," he said. "Could be you'll help me more than I will you."

She looked at him for a moment, and he realized it had been a tactless answer with too many unwanted implications. But then she picked up a cigarette and flicked a lighter to it. "Drink?" she asked.

"Well—you drink too much, pony."

"Perhaps you don't drink enough," she said.

"I like the taste. I don't like being drunk."

"You're afraid to lose control, aren't you? Sometimes, Bob, I think that explains you. To you, life is a ride on a tiger, and you've got to keep the reins every minute."

"Let's have none of these bad amateur psychoanalyses," he said, following her into the kitchen. He came up behind her and laid his hands on her waist. "And let's not fight. I'm sorry, Marge. I'm sorry for Bruce and for you."

Her head bent. "I know, Bob. Don't bother with words." She put the cigarette to her lips, took a puff of smoke, blew it out, lowered the cigarette, and twisted about between his hands. Her lips brushed his cheek. "Go on, I'll mix. I want to keep busy."

He returned to the living room and prowled out his unrest for a few minutes. The piano caught his gaze, he saw ruled bescribbled sheets and went over to look. Margery found him thus, when she came in with two glasses. "Sit down," she invited.

He regarded her through careful eyes, trying to judge her needs—and her demands, for his own warning. She was a trifle on the short side, her figure was good though tending to plumpness, and even he could appreciate the effect of her simple green dress. Her face was broad, with a slightly pug nose, very full lips, blue eyes under arched brows, a few freckles: "pert" was the word. Reddish hair fell in a soft bob just below the ears, which carried extravagant hoops.

He nodded at the piano. "So Bruce was composing again," he said.

"He was putting some poetry of his sister's to music, for some kind of little theater deal she has in preparation, over in the City."

"How was he doing? I can't read music."

"Listen." She sat down at the piano. "I'm a lousy player myself, but this will give you the idea."

Darkness was smoking in through the walls. She had to peer close to see the notes; her hands stumbled on the keys. And yet she created something gentle for him. Afterward the sounds tinkled in his memory like rain in a young year.

She ended it with a destructive sweep of her knuckles across the board. As the jangled basses fell silent, she said roughly: "That's all. He never finished it."

"I wonder—" Kintyre remembered not to sit on the couch; he found a chair. "I wonder if the world may not have lost even more than you and I, Marge."

"I don't give a four-lettering damn about the world," she told him. She crossed the room and snapped the light switch. The sudden radiance was harsh to them, they both squinted. "I'd settle for having Bruce back."

"So would I. Naturally." He accepted the drink she offered and took a long swallow. It was heavy on the whisky and light on the soda. "And yet he was a scholar of unusual gifts. He even (he, my student) changed my opinions about some aspects of Machiavelli's thought—emphasized the idealism—he would, of course. I remember him quoting at me, '... the best fortress is to be found in the love of the people.' Isn't that exactly the sort of thing which would stick in Bruce's mind?"

"'The best fortress.'" She stared into her glass. "It didn't help him much, did it?"

Kintyre groped for another cigarette. He was smoking too much, he thought; he'd have a tongue like a fried shoe sole tomorrow.

"How much do you know?" he asked.

"Only a little." The eyes she raised to him from the couch were desperate. "Bob, what happened? Who did it to him?"

"I can't imagine," he said tonelessly.

"But—could it have been an accident, Bob? Maybe by mistake for someone else—could it have been?"

"Perhaps." I lie in my flapping front teeth. You don't use pliers on a man without getting his name straight.

"What was in the paper?" he asked. "I haven't seen."

"I don't know. I've been sitting here, ever since the policemen came. They asked me if I could guess—God!" She emptied her glass in three gulps.

"Could you?" he murmured. "I find it hard to conceive of anyone who might hate Bruce."

"There was Gene Michaelis," she said. "I've been thinking and thinking about him. He and his father. I met them once."

"Yes. I'd forgotten that. But Michaelis is a cripple now, remember? He couldn't—"

"Bruce was called over to San Francisco. Someone called him on the phone. Don't forget that. I can't forget it. I sat here while he talked! He didn't say what it was about, he just left. Took the train. He seemed excited, happy. Said he'd be out late and—" Margery's breath snapped into her lungs. "Bob! Gene Michaelis, sitting there and waiting for Bruce to come in—and those great ugly hands of his!"

Kintyre got up and went over to the couch. He sat down on its arm, next to her. She felt blindly for his fingers; her own were cold.

"The police think Bruce was killed by professional criminals," he said. "Can you imagine any reason why?"

"No." Her head shook. "No. Only Gene Michaelis—he swore that accident was Bruce's fault. He almost had Bruce thinking so. You didn't see Bruce then. You didn't see how he was affected by it, his old friend biting at him like a dog, accusing him and his sister of—" She gave Kintyre a blurred look. "That was how Bruce and I started to live together. There was nothing else that would help him. He'd already proposed to me. I didn't want to get married again—to him—to get married. And he'd had no thought in his silly head of being anything but a gentleman. Sure. I practically shanghaied him into bed with me. What else would get that thing off his mind, Gene Michaelis lying on the highway with both legs mashed? Gene was the only person who ever hated Bruce, and just being hated nearly destroyed him. He couldn't have made any other enemies—knowingly—he wasn't able to!"

That's not quite true, thought Kintyre briefly. Jabez Owens.

Margery's voice had risen raggedly, and her nails bit his palm. He stood up, pulling her after him by the wrist, and said: "Come on. We're getting out of here."

"What?" She blinked at him, as if waking from sleep.

"You're tired and scared and lonesome and hungry, and none of it is good. We're going out to dinner, and we'll talk about Bruce or whatever else you want, but we're going out."

"I have to work tomorrow," she protested.

"Cannonballs! Tell 'em you're down with Twonk's Disease and need the rest of the week off. Now grab your purse."

She followed him then, shivering. He drove her car slowly, to give her and the drink within her time; he spoke of trivia.

She hung back a moment when he had parked outside one of Oakland's first-class restaurants. "You can't afford this, Bob," she said.

"If you mention money once again, I'm going to wash your mouth out with five-dollar bills," he snapped. "Old greasy ones."

She smiled. "You know," she said, "you aren't so unlike Bruce after all. I remember how he also used to go out of his way for people. And then once when I tried to praise him for it, he answered, 'Ah, I'm no God damned saint.'"

"Sounds like Bruce," agreed Kintyre.

"He worshiped you," she said over the cocktails. "Did you know how much? You were everything he could dream of being, a traveler, an athlete, a scholar. He was even thinking of doing his military service in the Navy, because that's where you were. And then you treated him as an equal! You did more to make him happy than anyone else."

"I'd say you did," he parried, embarrassed.

"You know you pushed that affair." She was a little drunk, he saw, but no harm in that: under better circumstances, he'd have called it a happy drunk. "Remember how he and I first met? You were pub crawling with him one evening last year after you got back from Europe. You ran into me at the mulled-wine place; I was eating piroshki and looked very unglamorous, but I thought I'd have some fun with you—oh, hell, Bob, I thought there might be a chance to make you jealous—so I gave Bruce a big play. And you were delighted!"

"I thought he needed a girl friend," he said. "There's more in life than books and beer."

"You pander," she chuckled. "I'll bet you gloated when you found we were living in sin."

He shrugged. "If you can call it sin. Actually, Bruce was a very domestic type. I hoped you'd marry him."

"Sure," she said. "So I'm a very domestic type too, aren't I—ain't I—Bob, I know you don't like to dance, and your dancing is awful, but shall we try it just once before dinner?"

Afterward, when brandy and coffee were completing the meal, she said: "I'm still not sure if I was in love with Bruce or not. I always liked him. I think I was beginning to love him."

"I should imagine it would be hard not to, under the circumstances."

"He was the first man I ever knew who was—(a)—" she ticked the points off on her fingers—"interesting; which the solid citizens back in Ohio were not, not to me anyway—(b) reliable, which the local Bohemians are not."

"Please! Call me what else you will, but not a Berkeley Bohemian."

"You don't count. You're in a classification all by yourself. 'Reliable' was the wrong word. What do I mean? Faithful; steady; loving. I guess that's it. Loving—not himself, like most of these perpetual undergraduates; not—whatever you love, Bob, there must be something but I've never found out what unless it's that sailboat of yours. Bruce was loving of me. Loving all the world, but including me."

"You could call him tender," agreed Kintyre. "And yet he was a man. We took some rough hikes and pack trips, during the years we knew each other; and lately, after I got him interested in judo, he was doing very well. In the course of these amusements I've seen him get damaged now and then, sometimes rather badly. But he never admitted feeling any pain."

"I guess you'd consider that a virtue," she said.

They parked in the hills, with the Eastbay cities like a galaxy of stars below them, San Francisco an island universe across darkness. She sighed and leaned against him. He wondered, dimly alarmed, why he had come here.

"What are you going to do?" she asked him.

"Me? In the next few days, you mean? Oh, wind up his University work. Call on his family; haven't seen them in a long time now. What about you?"

"Carry on. What else is there?"

"I don't know," he said in his helplessness.

She turned to him and her fingers clawed at his coat. "Bob, don't take me back to my place," she whispered. "Not tonight. Don't leave me alone."

"Huh? But—"

"I know, I know, you're afraid I'll trap you—you conceited baboon. For Christ's sake, let me sleep on your floor tonight, I won't touch a hair of your sanctimonious head, but don't leave me alone!"

For the first time since he came to her, she began to cry.

The telephone woke him. He turned over, not wholly oriented. There was a woman sleeping beside him, wearing a pair of his pajamas. Where had he picked her up? Wait. Margery!

She slept very much like a child, curled in a ball. The pale foggy morning light touched a line of dried tears on her cheek. Kintyre remembered how she had clung to him. Nothing else had happened; she might have been his terrified young—No! That was a thought he clamped off before it had formed. Let it be said only that he had been a friend to her last night, and no more.

He was already padding into the kitchen, to pick up the phone before it woke her. "Hello," he said.

"Dr. Kintyre? Moffat."

"Oh—oh, yes, the officer. What is it?"

"I wondered if you knew what's become of Miss Margery Towne. She isn't at home." The voice had a bland none-of-my-business-but-I-do-need-help overtone. Had he spotted her car outside the house?

"I might be able to locate her, if it's urgent," said Kintyre cautiously; for it was in truth none of Moffat's business. "What's the trouble?"

"Burglary."

"What?"

"A neighbor heard noises in her place last night. Stewed about it for several hours, got no answer to the doorbell, finally called us. Our man had to go up the fire escape and in a broken window. The thief's route. It's a mess in there."

"The devil you say!"

"The devil it might be, sir. There were valuables, jewelry and so on, lying in plain sight. They don't seem to've been touched. I suppose the burglar was looking for something else. Have you any idea what it might have been?"

3
Kintyre returned home about noon. Gerald Clayton caught him on the phone with an invitation to lunch. Kintyre accepted readily. He had his share of false pride, but not so much that he wouldn't let a millionaire pick up the tab for a good meal.

The Fairhill Hotel sat in a swank area on the knees of the summer-brown hills walling the Eastbay. Kintyre parked his hand-me-down among mammaried Cadillacs and rump-sprung Plymouths and strolled into the lobby.

Clayton rose from a chair. "Ah, there, Bob, how are you?" He shook hands and moved toward the elevator. "Thought I'd have lunch sent up. But if you'd like a drink beforehand—"

"No, thanks. Maybe a bottle of beer with the meal. Uh, what's the occasion of all this?"

"We've things to talk about. Not too urgent, I guess, but I'm going to be tied up over in the City." Clayton took Kintyre's arm. "Anyhow, I felt like having some company for lunch."

He was fifty, still broad in the chest and erect in the spine, though his custom-made suit worked hard to disguise a beginning paunch. His grizzled auburn hair, brushed straight back, covered a long narrow head; nose and chin jutted out of a creased sinewy face which must once have been rather handsome. His eyes were deeply set, a darting dragonfly blue, without any burden of glasses. Kintyre liked him in a way, and felt sorry for him in a way, and sometimes wondered what the man was really thinking about.

"I heard about young Lombardi," said Clayton in the elevator. "It's a terrible thing."

"The police been after you too?" Kintyre's manner was abrupt; he didn't feel like more emotional scenes.

"I had one interview. They weren't interested in my alibi at all. What a disappointment: I had such a beautiful one. Witnesses to every waking hour. I came to Berkeley about noon Saturday, had a long conference with the manager of a local motorcycle agency, and a theater party which lasted late. Sunday I was at church, then I played golf, in the evening you were over for drinks, and Monday I went back to the City and spent all day in the office."

The elevator stopped and they got out and went down a long corridor. A little puzzled and annoyed, Kintyre said: "You protest too much."

Clayton opened his door. "I'm sorry," he answered. "I was trying to lighten my own mood, and it came out sounding as if I were trying to be funny. Bruce was a good kid."

He called room service. Kintyre's gaze strayed idly around the suite. Actually, Clayton's Bay Area interests centered in San Francisco. For the past several months he had kept an apartment there, while he went through the preliminary maneuvers of establishing a local branch of his import house. But the Eastbay was enough of a market in itself to justify Clayton in frequently staying at the Fairhill for days on end.

Though his latest checking in had been on Thursday, the suite bore little trace of him. His San Francisco rooms were just as impersonal; Kintyre doubted that the New York penthouse or the luxurious flat in Rome had been given more of a soul. There were four pictures, which apparently went wherever Clayton did: a thin blonde woman, with a washed-out kind of prettiness, who had been his first wife; and two young men and a girl, the children she had given him. Otherwise, nothing but business mail and business documents could be seen.

Oh, yes, Clayton smoked expensive cigars, and he had developed enough patter to get by in social circles whose small talk included the opera or Sartre's latest pronunciamento. But he had left no books lying around, only a news magazine; no chess set or cards or half-completed crossword puzzle; no private correspondence—well, if a man wanted to be simply a cash register, it was his privilege.

But Clayton wasn't that either, thought Kintyre. Something of the brash young salesman (where was it he started, Indianapolis? Some such place) and the construction-gang foreman of worsening days and the minor executive in a Midwestern wholesale house—something of what Margery would label "Babbitt," with all of her own class's glibness in labeling—remained in the transoceanic entrepreneur. Yes. But something else must have developed too. Kintyre had never quite discovered what. It was one reason he accepted most of Clayton's invitations.

"Okay, lunch will be on its way. Siddown, Bob."

Kintyre crossed his legs by the window and took out a cigarette. Clayton chose a cigar. "Do the police have a lead on Bruce's murder?" he asked.

"How should I know?"

"You were his best friend." Clayton's eyes locked with Kintyre's and held steady. "The boy wasn't killed for fun. Somehow, he asked for it. If we knew what he was doing in, say, the last week of his life—"

"Hm. You have a point. He was seeing a good deal of you also, wasn't he?"

"Yes. That's the main reason I asked you over today, Bob. Perhaps between us we could reconstruct most of his movements." Clayton chuckled. "Not that I think we'd solve the crime ourselves or any such nonsense, but organized information might help the police."

"Well—" Kintyre's memory walked backward into darkness. "Let me think.... We were pretty busy till last week, with term's end and the start of final exams. After that it gets irregular, if you're on a faculty. You might have two exams on one day, and then none for three days. So Bruce had a certain amount of leisure all week. Huh—a week ago last Sunday—didn't he mention something about having gone across the Bay to see you?"

"He did." Clayton looked at a note pad. "He came up to my apartment to ask if I couldn't fix his older brother up with a job."

"So?"

"So I know that type. I'd met him, once before. I said no. Bruce got mad when I wouldn't even interview this Guido character."

Kintyre smiled. "I know what you mean. It's a side of him that not many people saw. He seldom lost his temper, but when it happened, it was awesome. I hope you kept yours."

"It wasn't easy," said Clayton. "Actually, this was not the first time we'd talked about the brother. There was once, some months ago—but I don't recall the details."

"I believe I remember. It came up à propos des bottes in my office, when you and he and I were discussing the Book of Witches, didn't it? He mentioned having this brother who spoke Italian. You doubted Guido would be qualified for any very responsible position. Yes, it comes back to me now, you got almost obnoxiously smug about how you had started from zero and so could anyone else."

"Less than zero in my case," said Clayton. His mouth twitched downward, ever so faintly.

"It riled Bruce," said Kintyre. "But he got over his mad fast enough. He was almost too reasonable for his own good."

"That sounds contradictory. I shouldn't think a really reasonable man would ever get angry."

"I beg to differ. Some things, it's unreasonable not to get furious about. Atrocities, including some governments whose existence is an atrocity. Or getting back to Bruce, there was the Point Perro incident several months ago."

"What was that?"

"Oh, nothing very important, I suppose. Point Perro is about sixty miles south on the coast highway. Uninhabited, though it's on any good map. Just a headland with a beach below, private property, fenced off, but I happen to know the owner and have his permission to use it. As isolated a spot, as primeval, as you'll find outside the High Sierras. Bruce and I took our sleeping bags down there for a weekend of surf casting. It has a deep-dropoff where the fish are apt to congregate at high tide. We found somebody had been dynamiting them, which had not only wasted and slaughtered fish but ruined some of the rock formations. Bruce followed the tire tracks above the cliffs, saw that the dynamiters had headed south, and insisted on following; He was quite ready to beat up on them himself. All we actually accomplished was to roust out the authorities, which spoiled our whole Saturday; but it never occurred to him to do less."

Kintyre sighed. "I suspect that he crusaded himself to his death, in just that manner."

"Let's return to our timetable," suggested Clayton. "Bruce stormed out of my place that Sunday night, but he did agree to come back the next afternoon. I said I'd think it over meanwhile, and he could bring Guido to see me after all."

"What happened?"

"They came together. I saw right off Guido was hopeless. Quite an amusing guy and all that, but once a bum always a bum. However, I made polite noncommittal noises. Hell, maybe I'll open a night club someday, and Guido can sing in it. That would be okay." Clayton drew on his cigar. "I didn't see Bruce again till that little party here Thursday night. Can you fill in the meantime?"

"Mmm—I had it all sorted out in my mind—yes. The Monday you speak of, I introduced Jabez Owens to Bruce. We all talked for about an hour in my office. Otherwise I think he just had a routine day, till he went over to your apartment."

"Tuesday?"

"More routine, except that Owens showed up as agreed and lent him the Borgia letters. Bruce took them home that night to look over."

"Oh, yes, those two were having quite an argument about it at the party. What's the deal, anyway? I didn't quite follow. Talking to Professor Ashwin most of the time, myself."

"Well, you know Owens is a writer, specializing in historical nonfiction on the popular level."

"I've heard the name, is all."

Kintyre drew the long breath of an experienced lecturer.

"Owens was a best seller in the late 1930's," he said. "Since the last official war, though, his sales have slipped. A couple of years back, he recouped with a thing called Magnificent Monster: The Life and Times of Cesare Borgia. Its scholarship is superficial—to put it kindly—but he has a flamboyant style and he dished up the sex and sadism with a liberal hand. All the old libels on Lucrezia are there, and so on. But it was a sensational seller even in hardback; the presses had trouble meeting the demand for pocket editions; and now Hollywood wants to film it as one of their more expensive superepics."

"So?" Clayton looked bored. "Good for him, but what has all this to do with Bruce?"

"Give me time. Prior to writing the book, Owens spent some months in Italy, allegedly doing research. He came back with certain letters he claims to have tracked down in the archives of a noble family—letters to and from Cesare, linking him with a cult of Satanists and all sorts of picturesque orgies and abominations.

"The correspondence stirred up a bit of professional controversy. If forged, it's skillfully done, and the noble family in question has been well bribed and well rehearsed. I suspect that is the case, myself. However, Owens has not unnaturally used the chance, not just to brag himself up as a scholarly detective, as if he'd found another cache of Boswell papers—he makes it pivotal to his whole book."

"Ah, yes. And now my Book of Witches manuscript—"

"Disproves it. The Book of Witches is unquestionably genuine, and certain statements in it pretty well clinch matters. La vecchia religione had been rooted out of the Romagna, even out of Liguria, long before Cesare Borgia was as much as a gleam in his daddy's apostolic eye. Therefore Owens' letters must be spurious. Either Owens had them cooked, or Owens was taken for a sucker himself.

"When he established this, some time back, Bruce wrote to the man. That was Bruce, of course. Give the poor chap a chance to back out gracefully, before publishing the evidence that will smear him over the landscape. Owens replied politely enough, asking for personal discussions. And so he arrived Sunday a week ago, en route to Hollywood from New York, and here he's been ever since."

"I shouldn't think he could keep the producer waiting like that," said Clayton.

"He has no firm commitment yet: only an invitation to come out and talk things over. A Piltdown-type scandal might cause the studio to back off. After all, if they want to do a life of Borgia, it's in the public domain. They don't have to pay Owens a nickel—unless, of course, they use the witch-cult material, in which case they'll doubtless pay him a fat sum and engage him as technical adviser to boot."

"Uh-huh." Clayton's eyes paled with thought.

"I keep getting sidetracked," complained Kintyre. "Also hoarse. I do want that beer now."

"In a minute, Bob. Let's continue this session first. You say Bruce took these letters home Tuesday night."

"Yes. I gathered he saw Owens again on Wednesday and returned them with the remark that he saw no reason to change his mind. There must have been quite an argument. I was at the dojo that evening, didn't see him till Thursday night, as a matter of fact. Then, of course, you had him and me and some of our colleagues—and Owens—up here for that stag party."

"I collect scholars," grinned Clayton.

Kintyre wondered if it might not literally be true. In the upper levels of the European business world, where Clayton spent half his time, a man was not respected for his money alone; he would get further if he could show some solid intellectual achievement. Clayton was hardly a social climber, but he must know the practical value of such kudos.

Any rich oaf of an American could buy paintings. Clayton was a bit more imaginative: he took up incunabula. And he invited specialists in, gave them liquor and sandwiches, turned them loose on each other, and sat around picking up the lingo.

And what's wrong with that? thought Kintyre. Any Renaissance dignitary patronized artists and scholars in much the same way, for much the same reasons. So the Renaissance had its Leonardo, Rafael, Michelangelo—We throw our creative people out into the market place to peddle themselves to the general public. What do we have? Rock 'n' Roll.

He jerked back to awareness. The other man was speaking: "—chemical tests. Owens said he wasn't going to let priceless relics be destroyed. It sounded phony to me."

"That was a real dogfight those two had." Kintyre shook his head admiringly.

"Never mind that now. Have you any information on Bruce's later movements?"

"Why, Friday he and I were both working hard. Saturday too he must have been. Yes, Friday afternoon was the last time I saw Bruce alive. We only said hello in passing. Margery Towne tells me he was home that evening and Saturday afternoon, otherwise apparently at the University."

"And that's all we can find out?" Clayton grimaced. "Not a hell of a lot, is it? Unless Miss Towne can tell—"

"One more thing," said Kintyre. "It may not be relevant. But her apartment was burgled last night."

The cigar dropped from Clayton's mouth. He bent over to pick it up, jerkily. His movements smoothed as Kintyre watched; when he raised himself and ground out the butt, his craggy face was under control.

"Surprised?" murmured Kintyre.

"Yes. Of course. What happened? What was taken?"

"That's the odd part. Nothing she knew of. Someone had broken in and made a hooraw's nest; but he, she, or it hadn't taken any silverware or jewelry, nothing."

"Uh." Clayton looked at his hands, folded in his lap, then back again, sharply. "How about papers?"

"We thought of that. The desks and drawers had been rooted through, all right, but nothing seemed to be missing."

"Would she know all about Bruce's papers?" Clayton fired the query like a policeman. "Don't stall, you damned Edwardian. I know she was his mistress."

"I don't happen to like that word in that particular connection," said Kintyre gently. "However—she hadn't seen all of Bruce's letters and notes. He kept them in a couple of cardboard filing boxes. They didn't seem even to have been opened, though."

"Did you look in to make sure?"

"No. Should we have?"

"I guess not." Clayton rubbed his chin. "No, I wouldn't bother. Because the burglar was evidently looking for something he thought might be in the apartment, but which wasn't. Something that might be in a desk or a bureau drawer, but was too large to fit into a filing box or a—any such thing."

"As what?" challenged Kintyre.

He had already guessed the answer: "The Book of Witches is a fairly big volume."

Kintyre nodded. He was on the point of repeating what Margery had said to him, when they stood in the ruins after the police had gone.

She poured herself a drink with shaking hands. A sunbeam splashed pale copper in her still tousled hair. She said: "That bastard. That crawling bastard. Why didn't I tell the cops?"

"Who?"

"Owens, of course! Who d'you think would come sneaking in here? What might we have of any use to anybody, except that old book Bruce was studying—the one that could torpedo Owens and his big movie sale and his precious reputation. Owens came in here to try and find that book and take it and burn it!"

She tossed off her drink neat, poured another and glared at Kintyre. "Well?" she snarled.

"Well, it's a serious accusation to make," he replied.

"Serious my left buttock! You know what that snake already tried to do? He tried to bribe Bruce! Bruce told me about it. Friday after that stag party, Owens came to his office and talked all around the subject and—oh, he was pious-sounding enough about it, he knows his euphemisms. But he offered Bruce five thousand dollars to suppress his findings about witches in Italy. Five thousand bucks—Christ, the movies can pay him a quarter of a million!"

"I take it, then, you're insulted by the size of the bribe."

The attempt to jolly her didn't come off. She said viciously: "Bruce boiled over. He was still boiling when he came home. He told Owens to his face, he'd write an article about his research the minute he returned from your pack trip—he'd inform the newspapers, so the whole public could know the truth—Bob!"

It was a scream in her throat.

"What is it?" he cried, turning toward her in alarm.

"Bob—do you think.... Oh, no, Bob!"

"What's the matter?" asked Clayton.

Kintyre shook himself. "Nothing. The manuscript is still with us, naturally," he said in a flat voice. "Bruce kept it in his office. I stopped by today and locked it in a safe."

"Owens—"

"Look here," said Kintyre angrily, "I went through this once before, with Miss Towne. I don't hold with talebearing. The police are competent, and have the essential facts already. Unless more evidence turns up to change my mind, I see no reason to run to them with any sordid little story of academic intrigue which can't even be proved."

However, his brain continued, while I'm in no position to pay fees, Trig isn't very busy these days. He may enjoy looking into the recent movements of a murder suspect.

There was a knock on the door and a bellboy wheeled in lunch.

4
Not until evening was Kintyre free to cross the bridge into San Francisco. He had spent hours on Bruce's uncorrected papers, and talked with Yamamura, who said he would sniff around, and he had called Margery on the phone to see if she was all right.

"Come over and take potluck, Bob," she said. He sensed loneliness. But—hell's boiling pots, she made him feel cluttered!

"I'm afraid I can't," he evaded. "Commitments. But take it easy, huh? Go visit someone, go have a cup of espresso, don't sit home and nest on your troubles. I'll see you soon."

He poured himself a small drink after hanging up and tossed it off. Then he changed into his darkest suit and got the car rolling. Personally, he would not have placarded a loss on his clothes, but Bruce's parents were from the Old World.

As he hummed along the freeway and over the great double span of the bridge (Bruce must have been carried dead in the opposite direction, wedged in a corner so the tollgate guard would think him merely asleep; doubtless the police were checking the memories of all night shift men) Kintyre rehearsed the career of the Lombardis. Bruce was the only one he had really known, though he had been over there for dinner a few times. The parents had been very respectful, innocently happy that their son should be friends with a Doctor of Philosophy. His mother made good pasta....

There wasn't much to remember. Angelo Lombardi was a Genoese sailor. Chronic hard times were not improved when his son Guido came along. Nor did he see much of his young wife. (Did Maria's years of being mostly alone in a dingy tenement, with nobody to love but one little boy, account for what Guido had become?) In 1930 the family arrived as immigrants at San Francisco. Here Angelo worked in the commercial fishing fleet; here Bruce and the daughter were born; here he saved enough money to buy his own boat; here he lost it again in a collision—by God, yes, it had been a collision with Peter Michaelis' single craft. Feeling the years upon him, Angelo used the insurance money to start a restaurant. It had neither failed nor greatly prospered: it gave him a living and little more.

Yet Angelo Lombardi had remained a man with hope.

Kintyre turned off at the first ramp, twisted through the downtown area, and got onto Columbus Avenue and so to North Beach. Hm, let's see—a minor street near the Chinatown fringe—uh-huh.

The sky was just turning purple when he stopped in front of the place: Genoa Cafe set in a two-story frame building perpetrated, with bays and turrets, right after the 1906 fire. It was flanked by a Chinese grocery store, full of leathery fragrances, and a Portuguese Baptist mission. A sign on the door said closed. Well, the old people would be in no mood for discussing the various types of pizza tonight.

Yellow light spilled from the upper windows. Kintyre found the door to the upstairs apartment and rang the bell.

A street lamp blinked to life, a car went by, a grimy urchin watched him impassively from a doorway across the road. He felt much alone.

He heard feet coming down the stairs, a woman's light quick tread. Expecting Maria Lombardi, he took off his hat and bowed in Continental style when the door opened. He stopped halfway through the gesture and remained staring.

Morna, he thought, and he stood on the schooner's deck as it heeled to the wind, and she was grasping the mainmast shrouds with one hand, crouched on the rail and shading her eyes across an ocean that glittered. Her yellow hair blew back into his face, it smelled of summer.

"Yes?"

Kintyre shook himself, like a dog come out of a deep hurried river. "I'm sorry," he stammered. "I'm sorry. You startled me, looked like someone I used to—" He pulled the chilly twilight air into his lungs, until he could almost feel them stretch. One by one, his muscles relaxed.

"Miss Lombardi, isn't it?" he tried again. "I haven't seen you for a couple of years, and you wore your hair differently then. I'm Robert Kintyre."

"Oh, yes. I remember you well," she said. Her mouth turned a little upward, its tautness gentling. "Bruce's professor. He spoke of you so often. It's very kind of you to come."

She stood aside to let him precede her. His hand brushed hers accidentally in the narrow entrance. Halfway up the stairs, he realized he was holding the fist clenched.

What is this farce? he asked himself angrily. Nothing more than straight blonde hair, worn in bangs across the forehead and falling to the shoulders. Now in the full electric light he could see that it wasn't even the same hue, a good deal darker than Morna's weather-bleached mane. And Corinna Lombardi was a mature woman—young, he recalled Bruce's going over to the City last month for her twenty-second birthday party—but grown. Morna would always be thirteen.

Corinna had been nineteen when he saw her last, still living here and working in the cafe. That was at a little farewell dinner the Lombardis had given him, before he departed for his latest year in Italy. They had wanted him to look up Angelo's brother Luigi, the one who had made a success in the old country as a secret service man. Kintyre had visited Luigi a few times, finding him a pleasant sort with scholarly inclinations, most interested in his brilliant nephew Bruce, with whom he corresponded.

At any rate, Kintyre had had too much else to think about to pay much attention to a quiet girl. By the time he returned, as Bruce told him, she had left home after a spectacular quarrel with her parents. That was soon repaired—it had only been a declaration of independence—but she had kept her own job and her own apartment since then.

The rambling of his mind soothed him. At the time he did not realize that, down underneath, his mind was telling itself about Corinna Lombardi. It decided that she had few elements of conventional prettiness. She was tall, and her figure was good except that the shoulders were too wide and the bust too small for this decade's canons. Her face was broad, with high cheek-bones and square jaw and straight strong nose; it had seen a good deal of sun. Her eyes were greenish-gray under heavy dark brows, her mouth was wide and full, her voice was low. She wore a black dress, as expected, and a defiant bronze pin in the shape of a weasel.

Then Kintyre had emerged on the landing, and Angelo Lombardi—thickset, heavy-faced, balding—engulfed his hand in an enormous sailor's paw. "Come in, sir, please to come in and have a small glass with us."

Maria Lombardi rose for the Doctor of Philosophy. Her light-brown hair and clear profile told whence her children had their looks; he suspected that much of the brains had come from her too. "How do you do, Professor Keen-teer. We thank you for coming."

He sat down, awkwardly. Overstuffed and ghastly, the living room belonged to a million immigrants of the last generation, who had built from empty pockets up to the middle class. But families like this would eat beans oftener than necessary for twenty years, so they could save enough to put one child through college. Bruce had been the one.

"I just came to express my sympathy," said Kintyre. He felt himself under the cool green appraisal of Corinna's eyes, but could not think of words less banal. "Can I do anything to help? Anything at all?"

"You are very kind," said old Lombardi. He poured from what was evidently his best bottle of wine. "Everyone has been so kind."

"Do you know what his room was like, the past half of a year, Professor?" asked Maria. "He never invited us there."

I rather imagine not, thought Kintyre wryly. "Nothing unusual," he said. "I'll bring you his personal effects as soon as I can."

"Professor," said Lombardi. He leaned his bulk forward very slowly. The glass shivered in his fingers. "You knew my son so well. What do you think happen to him?"

"I only know what the police told me," said Kintyre.

Maria crossed herself. She closed her eyes, and he did not watch her moving lips; that conversation didn't concern him.

"My son he was murdered," said Lombardi in an uncomprehending voice. "Why did they murder him?"

"I don't know," insisted Kintyre. "The police will find out."

Corinna left her chair and came around to stand before the men. It was a long stride, made longer by wrath. She put her hands on her hips and said coldly:

"Dr. Kintyre, you're not naive. You must know murder is one of the safest crimes there is to commit. What's the actual probability that they'll ever learn who did it, when they claim they haven't even a motive to guide them?"

Kintyre couldn't help bristling a trifle. She was tired and filled with grief, but he had done nothing to rate such a tone. He clipped off his words: "If you think you have a clue, Miss Lombardi, you should take it to the authorities, not to me."

"I did," she said harshly. "They were polite to the hysterical female. They'll look into it, sure. And when they see he has an alibi—as he will!—they won't look any further."

Maria stood up. "Corinna!" she exclaimed. "Basta, figliolaccia!"

The girl wrenched free of her mother's hand. "Oh, yes," she said, "that's how it was with the policeman too. With everybody. Don't pick on the poor cripple. Haven't you been enough of a jinx to him? Don't you see, that's exactly what he thinks! That's why he killed Bruce!"

An inner door opened, and a man entered the room. He was thirty years old, with a strong burly frame turning a little fat. He was good-looking in a dark heavy-lipped way, his hair black and curly, his eyes a restless rusty brown, nose snubbed and jaw underslung. He wore tight black trousers with a silver stripe, a cummerbund, a white silk shirt open halfway down his chest; he carried a cased guitar under one arm.

"Oh," he said. "I thought somebody'd come. Hello, Doc."

"Hello, Guido," said Kintyre, not getting up. He had nothing personally against Bruce's older brother, who had been quite a charming devil the few casual times they met. However—"He who does not choose the path of good, chooses to take the path of evil," said Machiavelli's Discourses: and Guido had been an anchor around more necks than one.

"Don't get in a bind, kitten," he said to his sister. "I could hear you making with the grand opera a mile upwind."

She whirled about on him, shaking, and said: "You could let him get cold before you went back to that club to sing your dirty little songs."

"My girl, you speak the purest B.S., as Bruce would have been the first to tell you." Guido smiled, took out a cigarette one-handed and stuck it in his mouth. "I was out of town the whole weekend, just when the cats go real crazy. If I don't make with it tonight, the man will ignite me, and what good would that do Bruce?" He flipped out a book of matches, opened it and struck one, all with the same expert hand.

Corinna's gaze went from face to face, and a beaten look crept into it. "Nobody cares," she whispered. "Just nobody cares."

She sat down. Lombardi twisted his fingers, looking wretched; Maria folded herself stiffly into a chair; Guido leaned on the doorjamb and blew smoke.

Kintyre felt, obscurely, that it depended on him to ease the girl. He said: "Please, Miss Lombardi. We don't mean that. But what can we do? We'd only get in the way of the police."

"I know, I know." She got it out between her teeth, while she looked at the floor. "Let George do it. Isn't that the motto of this whole civilization? Someday George isn't going to be around to do it, and we'll have gotten too flabby to help ourselves."

It paralleled some of his own thinking so closely that he was startled. But he said, "Well, you can't declare a vendetta, can you?"

"Oh, be quiet!" She looked up at him with a smoldering under her brows. "Of course I don't mean that. But I know who must have done it, and I know he'll have some kind of story, and no one will look past that story, because he seems like such a pathetic case. And he isn't! I know Gene and Peter Michaelis. They got what was coming to them!"

"Too much!" roared Lombardi. "Now you be still!" She ignored him. Her eyes would not release Kintyre's.

"Well?" she said after a moment.

He wondered if it was only her misery which clawed at him, or if she was always such a harpy. He said with great care: "Well, in theory any of us could be guilty. I might have done it because Bruce was—going around with a girl I used to know. Or Guido here—jealousy? A quarrel? I assume we have merely his word he was out of town on Saturday and Sunday. Shall we also ask the police to check every minute of his weekend?"

The man in the doorway flushed. "Dig that," he said slowly. "So you're going to—"

"Nothing of the sort," rapped Kintyre. "I was trying to show how a private suspicion is no grounds for—"

Guido took a long drag on his cigarette, snuffed it in a horrible souvenir ashtray, and left without a word. They heard his footfalls go down the stairs.

"I am so sorry, Mister Professor," faltered Lombardi.

"Niente affatto, signor." Kintyre stood up. "All of you are worn out." He essayed a smile at Corinna. "You were echoing some of my own principles. We pessimists ought to stick together."

She did not even turn her face toward him. But her profile was one he could imagine on Nike of Samothrace, the Victory which strides in the wind.

"I've always thought principles should be acted on," she told him sullenly.

"Corinna!" said Maria. Her daughter paid no attention.

Kintyre took his leave in a confusion of apologies. When he stood alone on the dusky street, he whistled. That had been no fun.

But now it was over with. He could let things cool down for a week or so, then deliver Bruce's possessions, and say farewell with an insincere promise to "look you up soon, when I get the chance." And there would be an end of that.

But he had thought for a heartbeat she was Morna come home to him.

His fingers were wooden, hunting for a cigarette; he dropped the pack on the sidewalk before getting one out. He could feel the first onset of the horror, moving up along the channels of his brain.

Sometimes, he thought with a remnant of coolness, sometimes distraction could head off the trouble. If he could get involved in something outside himself, and yet important to himself, so that his whole attention was engaged, the horror might retreat.

He yanked smoke into his lungs, blew it forth, tossed the cigarette to the paving and stamped on it. Then he went into the grocery. There was a public phone on the wall, he leafed through the directory until he found the name.

Michaelis Peter C.

5
He didn't call ahead, but drove on down. When he parked and got out, he saw Coit Tower whitely lit above him, on the steep art-colony heights of Telegraph Hill. Not many blocks away was Fisherman's Wharf, a lot of tourist pits and a few authentic restaurants. But here he stood in a pocket of slum, before a rotting rattrap tenement. A single street lamp a block away cast a purulent light at its own foot. Elsewhere the night flowed. He heard the nearby rattle of a switch engine, pushing freight cars over iron; a battered cat slunk past him; otherwise he was alone.

He walked across to the house with forced briskness, struck a match and hunted through several grimy scrawls on mailboxes before Michaelis' name came to him. Number 8.

The main entrance was unlocked. The hall, dusty in threadbare carpeting, held dim electric bulbs. He heard noises through some of the doors, and smelled stale cooking. A glance told him Number 8 must be upstairs. He climbed, only now starting to wonder just how he planned to do his errand.

Or what his errand was, if it came to that.

Bruce had never spoken much to him of Gene Michaelis. They had been children together on the waterfront. Bruce was a year younger, doubtless a quiet bookish sort, teacher's pet, even then—but apparently unaffected by it, so that he was not disliked. Still, he must have been lonely. And Gene was a rough-and-tumble fisherman's son. Nevertheless, one of those odd fierce boy-friendships had existed between them. Bruce had probably dominated it, without either of them realizing the fact.

In time they drifted apart. Gene had left high school at sixteen, Bruce had said, after some whoopdedo involving a girl; he had tramped since then, dock walloper, fry cook, bouncer, salesman—he found it easy to lie about his age. Now and then he revisited the Bay Area. His return from Navy service had been last summer, when Kintyre was still in Europe; Kintyre had never actually met him. Gene had looked up Bruce in Berkeley, and through Bruce renewed an acquaintance with Corinna, and after that Gene had moved over to San Francisco.

Number 8. Kintyre heard television bray through the thin panels. He looked at his watch. Past ten o'clock. Oh, hell, let's play by ear. He knocked.

Feet shuffled inside. The door opened. Kintyre looked slightly upward, into a lined heavy face with a thick hook nose and small black eyes and a gray bristle of hair. The man had shoulders like a Mack truck, and there wasn't much of a belly on him yet. He wore faded work clothes. The smell of cheap wine was thick around him.

"What do you want?" he said.

"Mr. Michaelis? My name's Kintyre. I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes."

"We're not buying any, and if you're from the finance company you can—" Michaelis completed the suggestion.

"Neither," said Kintyre mildly. "Call me a sort of ambassador."

Puzzled, Michaelis stood aside. Kintyre walked into a one-room apartment with a curtained-off cooking area. A wall bed was opened out, unmade. There were a few chairs, a table with a half-empty gallon of red ink on it, a television set, a tobacco haze, much dust and many old newspapers on the floor.

Gene Michaelis occupied a decaying armchair. He was a young, black-haired version of his father, and would have been rather handsome if he smiled. He wore flannel pajamas which had not been washed for some time. His legs stuck rigidly out before him, ending in shoes whose heels rested on the floor. Two canes leaned within reach. He was smoking, drinking wine, and watching the screen; he did not stop when Kintyre entered.

"I'm sorry the place is such a mess," said Peter Michaelis. He spoke fast, with an alcoholic slur. "It's kind of hard. My wife's dead, and my son has to live with me and he can't do nothing. When I get home from looking for work, all day looking for a job, I'm too tired to clean up." He made vague dusting motions over a chair. "Siddown. Drink?"

"No, thanks." Kintyre lowered himself. "I came—"

"I was already down in the world when this happened last year," said Michaelis. "I owned my own boat once. Yes, I did. The Ruthie M. But then she got sunk, and there wasn't enough insurance to get another, and well, I ended up as a deckhand again. Me, who'd owned my own boat." He sat and blinked muzzily at his guest.

"I'm sorry to hear that. But—"

"Then my wife died. Then my son come back from the Navy, and got himself hurt real bad. Both legs gone, above the knees. It took all the money I had to pay the doctors. I quit work to take care of my son. He was in a bad way. When he got so he could look after himself a little, I went looking for my job back, only I didn't get it. And since then I haven't found nothing."

"Well," said Kintyre, "there's the welfare, and rehabilitation—"

Gene turned around and said a short obscenity.

"That's what they'll do for you," he added. "They found me a job basket weaving. Basket weaving! Kee-rist, I was a gunner's mate in the Navy. Basket weaving!"

"I'm a Navy man myself," ventured Kintyre. "Or was, after Pearl Harbor. Destroyers."

"What rank were you? A brown-nosing officer, I'll bet."

"Well—"

"A brass hat. Kee-rist." Gene Michaelis turned back to his television.

"I'm sorry," muttered his father. "It's not so easy for him, you know. He was as strong and lively a young fellow as you could hope to see. God, six months ago! Now what's he got to do all day?"

"I'm not offended," said Kintyre. I would, in fact, be inclined to take offense only at a system of so-called education which has so little discipline left in it that its victims are unable to do more than watch this monkey show when the evil days have come. But that is not of immediate relevance.

"What did you come for?" Peter Michaelis lifted his bull head and his voice crested: "You know of a job?" He sagged back again. "No. No, you wouldn't."

"I'm afraid not," said Kintyre. "I came as—I came to help you in another way." Maledetto! How much like Norman Vincent Peale is one man allowed to sound? But I can't think of anything else.

"Yes?" Michaelis sat erect; even Gene twisted half around.

"You know the Lombardi family, of course."

"Do we know them?" spat Michaelis. "I wish to hell we didn't!"

"Have you heard that the son, Bruce, is dead?"

"Uh-huh," said Gene. He turned down the sound of his program and added with a certain pleasure: "Looks like there's some justice in the world after all."

"Now, wait," began Kintyre.

Gene turned more fully to face the visitor. His eyes narrowed. "What have you got to do with them?" he asked.

"I knew Bruce. I thought—"

"Sure. You thought he was God's little bare-bottomed baby angel. I know. Everybody does. It took a long time to get down past all those layers of holy grease on him. I did."

"You know what the old man done to me?" shouted Peter Michaelis. "He rammed me. Sent my boat to the bottom in 1945. He murdered two of my crew. They drowned. I could of been drowned myself!"

Kintyre remembered Bruce's account. A freakish, sudden fog had been blown down a strong wind. Such impossibilities do happen now and then. The boats blundered together and sank. The Coast Guard inquiry found it an act of God; Michaelis tried to sue, but the case was thrown out of court. Then, for the sake of their sons, Peter and Angelo made a grudging peace.

What had happened lately must have brought all the old bitterness back, with a dozen years' interest added.

"Shut up," said Gene. He was drunk too, Kintyre saw, but cold drunk, in control of everything except his emotions. "Shut up, Pete. It was an accident. Why should he ruin his own business?"

"He got him a restaurant out of it," mumbled Michaelis. "What have we got?"

"Look here," said Kintyre, not very truthfully. "I'm a neutral party. I didn't have to come around here, and there's nothing in it for me. But will you listen?"

"If you'll listen too," said Gene. He poured himself another glass. "Huh. I know what the Lombardis been telling you about me. Let me tell you about them."

Somewhere in the back of Kintyre's mind, a thin little warning whistle blew. He grabbed the arms of his chair and hung on tight. There was no time now to add up reasons why; he knew only that if he let Gene talk freely about Corinna, there was going to be trouble.

"Never mind," he said coldly. "I'm not interested in that aspect. I came here because I don't think you murdered Bruce Lombardi and the police may think you did."

That stopped them. Peter Michaelis looked up, his face turning a drained color. Gene puckered his lips, snapped them together, and went blank of expression. His dark gaze did not waver from Kintyre's, and he said quite steadily: "What are you getting at?"

"Bruce was called over to the City by someone last Saturday evening," said Kintyre. "His body was found Monday morning. You know very well that if you'd called him, offering to patch up the quarrel, he'd have come like a shot. Where were you two this weekend?"

"Why—" Peter Michaelis' voice wobbled. "I was home all day Saturday—housework. Went out for a drink at night—church Sunday morning, yeah, then came back for a nap. Hey, I played pinochle down in front of the warehouse that evening with—" His words trailed off.

"Nobody glanced in, then?" asked Kintyre. "No one who could verify that Bruce wasn't lying bound and gagged?"

"Why—I—"

"Hey!" Gene Michaelis surged to his feet. It was a single swinging leap, propelled upward by his arms. His aluminum legs spraddled, seeking clumsily for a foothold. Somehow he got one of his canes and leaned on it.

"What business is it of yours, anyway?" he snarled.

Can I tell you that I don't know? thought Kintyre. Can I tell you I'm here because a girl I'd scarcely seen before now wanted me to come?

Hardly.

He leaned back with strained casualness and said: "I want to make peace between your two families. Call it a gesture toward Bruce. I admit I liked him. And he never stopped liking you, Gene.

"If you keep on spewing hatred at the Lombardis as you have been, the police are going to get very interested in your weekend. Where were you?"

Gene hunched his shoulders. "None of your God damn business."

"I take it you weren't home, then."

"No, I was not. If you want to ask any more, let's see your Junior G-man badge."

Kintyre sighed. "All right." He stood up. "I'll go. The cops won't be so obliging, if you don't cooperate with them."

He looked past Gene, to the window. It was a hole into total blackness. He wondered if that had been the last sight Bruce saw—of all this earth of majesty, a single smeared window opening on the dark.

"I didn't do it," said Gene. "We didn't." He showed his teeth. "But I say three cheers for whoever did. I'd like to get the lot of 'em here, that sister now—"

"Hold on!" The violence of his tone shivered Kintyre's skull. Afterward it was a wonder to him, how rage had leaped up.

Gene swayed for a moment. An unpleasant twisting went along his lips. Beside Kintyre, the father also rose, massive and watchful.

"So you'd like some of that too, would you?" said Gene. "You won't get it. She's only a whore inside. Outside, she's like a goddam nun. You know what we call that kind where I come from? Pri—"

"I'm going," said Kintyre harshly. "I prefer to be among men."

Unthinkingly, he had chosen the crudest cut. He saw that at once. A physical creature like Gene Michaelis, whose sexual exploits must have been his one wall against every hidden inadequacy, must now be feeling nearly unmanned.

Gene roared. His cane lifted and whistled down.

It could have been a head-smashing blow. Kintyre stepped from it and it jarred against the floor. The cane broke across. Gene rocked forward on his artificial legs, his hands reaching out for Kintyre's throat.

Kintyre planted himself passively, waiting. He didn't want to hit a cripple. Nor would fists be much use against all that bone and meat.

As Gene lunged, Kintyre slipped a few inches to one side, so the clutching arm went above his shoulder. He took it in his hands, his knee helped the great body along, and Gene Michaelis crashed into the wall.

As the cloud of plaster exploded, Kintyre saw the old man attack. Peter Michaelis was still as strong as a wild ox, and as wrathful.

Kintyre could have killed him with no trouble.

Kintyre had no wish to. Anyone could be driven berserk, given enough low-grade alcohol on top of enough wretchedness. He waited again, until the fisherman's fist came about in a round-house swing. There was time enough for a judo man to get out of the way, catch that arm, spin the opponent halfway around, and send him on his way. It would have been more scientific to throttle him unconscious, but that would have taken a few seconds and Gene was crawling back to his feet.

"Let's call it a day," said Kintyre. "I'm not after a fight."

"You—filthy—bastard." Gene tottered erect. Blood ran down one side of his mouth; the breath sobbed in and out of him; but he came.

On the way he picked up the other cane.

He tried to jab with it. Kintyre took it away from him. As simple as that—let the stick's own motion carry it out of the opponent's hand. Gene bellowed and fell. Kintyre rapped him lightly on the head, to discourage him.

Someone was pounding on the door. "What's going on in there? Hey, what's going on?"

"I recommend you cooperate with the police," said Kintyre. "Wherever you were this weekend, Gene, tell them. They'll find out eventually."

He opened the window, went through, and hung for a moment by his hands. Father and son were sitting up, not much damaged. Kintyre straightened his elbows and let go. It wasn't too long a drop to the street, if you knew how to land.

He went to his car and got in. There was no especial sense of victory within him: a growing dark feeling of his own momentum, perhaps. He had to keep moving, the horror was not yet asleep.

All right, Corinna, he thought as the motor whirred to life. It was a bit childish, but he was not in any normal state. I did your job. Now I'll do one for myself.

6
When Bruce last mentioned Guido to Kintyre, not so long ago, the name of the Alley Cat occurred. Presumably Guido was still singing there. Kintyre looked up the address in a drugstore phone book. It was back in North Beach, of course, in a subdistrict which proved to be quiet, shabby, and tough.

There was no neon sign to guide him, only a flight of stairs downward to a door with the name painted on it. Once past a solid-looking bouncer, he found a dark low-ceilinged room, decorated with abstract murals and a few mobiles. The bar was opposite him. Otherwise the walls were lined with booths, advantageously deep, and the floor was packed with tables. Most of the light came from candles on these, in old wax-crusted Chianti bottles. Patronage was thin this evening, perhaps a dozen couples and as many stags. They ran to type: either barely of drinking age or else quite gray, the men with their long hair and half-open blouses more ornate than most of the women, a few obvious faggots, a crop-headed girl in a man's shirt and trousers holding hands with a more female-looking one.

Hipsters, professionally futile; students, many of whom would never leave the warm walls of academe; a Communist or two, or a disillusioned ex-Communist who had not found a fresh illusion, perpetually refighting the Spanish Civil War; self-appointed intellectuals who had long ago stopped learning or forgetting; dabblers in art or religion or the dance; petty racketeers, some with a college degree but no will to make use of it—Kintyre stopped enumerating. He knew these people. One of his strictures on Margery was her weakness for such a crowd. They bored him.

Guido sat on a dais near the bar, draped around a high stool with a glass of beer handy. His fingers tickled the guitar strings, they responded with life, he bore his brother's musical gifts. His voice was better than Bruce's:

"—Who lived long years ago.
He ruled the land with an iron hand
But his mind was weak and low—"
Despite himself, Kintyre was amused to find such an old acquaintance here. He wondered if Guido knew the author.

He threaded between the tables till he reached one close by the platform. Guido's glance touched him, and the curly head made a half-nod of recognition.

Since he would be overcharged anyway, Kintyre ordered an import beer and settled back to nurse it. The ballad went on to its indelicate conclusion. Guido ended with a crashing chord and finished his brew at a gulp. There was light applause and buzzing conversation.

Guido leaned back against the wall. His eyelids drooped and he drew wholly different sounds from the strings. Talk died away. Not many here would know this song. Kintyre himself didn't recognize it before the singer had embarked on the haunting refrain. Then Guido looked his way, smiling a little, and he knew it was a gift to him.

"Quant' è bella giovinezza
Che si fugge tuttavia!
Di doman' non c' è certezza:
Chi vuol esse lieto, sia!"
Lorenzo the Magnificent had written it, long ago in the days of pride.

When he finished, Guido said, "Entr'acte," laid down his guitar, and came over to Kintyre's table. He stood with his left hand on his hip, fetching out a cigarette and lighting it with the right.

"Thanks," said Kintyre.

Guido continued the business with the cigarette, taking his time. Kintyre returned to his beer.

"Well," said Guido finally. He grinned. "You're a cool one. I mean in every sense of the word. Let's find a booth."

They sat down on opposite sides of the recessed table. A handsome young waitress lit the candle for them. "On me," said Guido.

"Same, then," said Kintyre, emptying his glass.

Guido squirmed. "How d'you like the place?" he asked.

Kintyre shrugged. "It's a place."

"This Parisian bistro deal is only on slack nights. Weekends, we got a combo in here."

"I think I prefer the bistro."

"I guess you would."

They fell back into silence. Guido smoked raggedly. Kintyre felt no need for tobacco; the implacable sense of going somewhere overrode his self.

After the girl had brought their round, Guido said in a harsh tone, looking away from him: "Well, what is it? I got to go on again soon."

"I just came from the Michaelis'," said Kintyre.

"What?" Guido jerked. "What'd you go there for?"

"Let's say I was curious. Gene Michaelis was out of sight last weekend. He won't say where."

"You don't—" Guido looked up. Something congealed in him. "I thought Corinna was just flipping," he said, very softly.

"I don't accuse anyone," said Kintyre. "I'm only a civilian. However, the police are going to give him a rough time if he won't alibi himself."

Guido lit a fresh cigarette from the butt of the last.

"Where were you, Saturday afternoon through Monday morning?" Kintyre tossed the question off as lightly as he was able.

"Out of town," said Guido. "With some friends."

"You'd better get in touch with them, then, so they can give statements to that effect."

"They—Christ almighty!" In the guttering flamelight, Kintyre saw how sweat began to film the faun countenance.

"My personal opinion," he said, watching Guido's lips fight to stiffen themselves, "is that you are not involved. The fact remains, though, you'd better account for your weekend."

"To you?" It was a wan little truculence.

"I can't force you. But without trying to play detective, I am sticking my nose a ways into this affair. Knowing the people concerned, I might possibly turn up something the police can use.

"So where did you spend your weekend, Guido?"

The full mouth pouted. "Rotate, cat, rotate. Why should anybody care? Where's my motive?"

"Where is anyone's motive? You have a lot of shady friends. I daresay your mother had to shield you often enough from your father—or even from the authorities, once or twice." It was a guess on Kintyre's part, but he saw that he had struck a target. "Maybe of late you've gotten mixed up with something worse. Maybe Bruce found out."

"Beat feet," said Guido. "Blow before I call the bouncer."

"I'm merely trying to reason as a policeman might. I'm not accusing you, I'm warning you."

"Well," said Guido, raising his eyes again, "there wasn't anything like that going on. Certainly nothing Bruce would know about. I mean, man, he was all professor!"

"Jealousy," murmured Kintyre. "There's another motive. Bruce was the favorite. All his life he was the favorite. Oh, he deserved it—the well-behaved kid, the bright and promising kid. But it must have been hard for you to take, with your Italian background, where the oldest son normally has precedence. You were college material too. It just so happened Bruce was better, and there was only money for one. Of course, later you had your G.I., and didn't use it. You'd lost interest. Which doesn't change the fact: money was spent on Bruce that might otherwise have been spent on you."

Guido finished his whisky and signaled out the booth. "Crazy," he fleered. "But go on."

"Well, let's see. I imagine you're always at loggerheads with your father. That won't recommend you to a suspicious detective either. Here you are, thirty years old, and except for your military hitch you've always lived at home. You've sponged, between short-lived half-hearted jobs; you've drifted from one night club engagement to another, but all small time and steadily getting smaller. I hardly think you belong to the Church any more, do you?"

"I was kicked out," admitted Guido with a certain cockiness. "I got married a few years back. It didn't take. So I got divorced and the Church kicked me out. Not that I'd believed that guff for a long time before. But there was quite a row."

The waitress looked into the booth. Guido slid a hand down her hip. "Let's have a bottle in here," he said. "Raus!" He slapped her heartily on the rump. His gaze followed her toward the bar.

"Nice piece, that," he said. "Maybe I can fix you up with her, if you want."

"No, thanks," said Kintyre.

Guido was winning back his confidence. He grinned and said: "Sure. I'm the bad boy. Bruce worked part time all his undergraduate years, and made his own way since. Corinna still helps out with a slice of her paycheck, which is none too big. But me, man, I got horns, hoof, and tail. I eat babies for breakfast.

"Only lemme tell you something about Bruce. All the time he was so holy-holy, attending Mass every Sunday he was over on this side—but avoiding Communion, come to think of it—he didn't give a damn either. He just didn't have the nerve to make a clean break with those black crows, like me."

Kintyre, who had listened to many midnight hours of troubled young confidences, said quietly: "At the time he died, Bruce hadn't yet decided what he believed. He wouldn't hurt his parents for what might turn out to be a moment's intellectual whim."

"All right, all right. Only did you know he was shacking up?"

Kintyre raised his brows. "I'm surprised he told you. He introduced the girl around as his fiancee. In the apartment house he said she was his wife. He was more concerned about her reputation than she was."

"Come off it," snorted Guido. "Who did he fool?"

"Nnn ... nobody who met her, I suppose. He tried, but—"

"But this was the first woman he ever had, and it was such a big event he couldn't hide it. He was a lousy liar. Just for kicks, I badgered him till he broke down and admitted it to me."

"It was her idea," said Kintyre. "He wanted to marry her."

"Be this as it may," said Guido, "our little tin Jesus turns out to've been less than frank with everybody. So what else did he have cooking? Don't ask what I'm mixed up in. Look into his doings."

"I might," said Kintyre, "except that you have explained to me how poor a liar he was."

The girl came back with a pint of bourbon and a chit for Guido to sign. She leaned far over to set down a bottle of soda and two glasses of ice, so Kintyre could have a good look down her dress.

"Man," said Guido when she had oscillated off again, "Laura's got ants tonight. If you don't help yourself to that, I will."

"Why offer me the chance in the first place?" asked Kintyre. He ignored the proffered glass, sticking to his beer.

"I was going out on the town when I finished here. Know some places, they cost but they're worth it." Guido slugged his own glass full, added a dash of mix, and drank heartily. "They'll keep till tomorrow, though."

"I wonder where a chronically broke small-time entertainer gets money to splurge, all at once," said Kintyre.

Guido set his drink down again. Behind the loose, open blouse, his breast muscles grew taut.

"Never you mind," he said, in the bleakest voice Kintyre had yet heard him use. "Forget I mentioned it. Run along home and play with your books."

"As you wish. But when you're being officially grilled—and you will be, sonny—I wouldn't talk about Bruce in exactly the terms you used tonight. It sounds more and more as if you hated him."

Kintyre had no intention of leaving. Guido was disquietingly hard to understand. He might even, actually, be a party to the murder. Kintyre didn't want to believe that. He hoped all the tough and scornful words had been no more than a concealment, from Guido's own inward self, of bewildered pain. But he couldn't be sure.

He would have to learn more.

He sat back, easing his body, his mind, trying not to expect anything whatsoever. Then nothing could catch him off balance.

But the third party jarred him nonetheless.

A man came over toward the booth. He had evidently just made an inquiry of the waitress. He wore a good suit, painstakingly fashionable, and very tight black shoes. His face looked young.

Guido saw him coming and tightened fingers around his glass. A pulse in the singer's throat began to flutter.

"Get out," he said.

"What's wrong now?" Kintyre didn't move.

"Get out!" The eyes that turned to him were dark circles rimmed all around with white. The tones cracked across. "I'll see you later. There could be trouble if you stay. Blow!"

Kintyre made no doubt of it. Ordinarily he would have left, he was not one to search for a conflict. But he did not think any man could be worse to meet than the horror, and he could feel the horror still waiting to take him, as soon as he stopped having other matters to focus on.

He poured out the rest of his beer. Then the man was standing at the booth.

He was young indeed, Kintyre saw, perhaps so young he needed false identification to drink. His face was almost girlish, in a broad-nosed sleepy-eyed way, and very white. The rest of him was middling tall and well muscled; he moved with a sureness which told Kintyre he was quick on his feet.

"Uh," said Guido.

The young man jerked his head backward.

"He was just—just going," chattered Guido. "Right away."

"When I finish my beer, of course," said Kintyre mildly.

"Drink up," said the young man. He had no color in his voice. Its accent wasn't local, but Kintyre couldn't place the exact region. More or less Midwestern. Chicago?

It was a good excuse to get his back up. "I don't see where you have any authority in the matter," said Kintyre.

"Mother of God," whispered Guido frantically across the table. "Scram!"

The young man stood droop-lidded for a moment, considering. Then he said to Guido: "Okay. Another booth."

"Won't you join us here?" asked Kintyre. "You can say your say when I've gone."

The young man thought it over for a second or two. He shrugged faintly and sat down beside Kintyre, a couple of feet away. Shakily, Guido poured a drink into the unused glass of ice.

"Th-th-this is—Larkin," he said. "Terry Larkin. This is Professor Kintyre. He was a friend of my brother, is all."

"Are you from out of town, Mr. Larkin?" said Kintyre.

The young man took out a pack of cigarettes. It was the container for a standard brand, but the homemade cylinders inside were another matter. He lit one and sat back, unheeding of the whisky.

Kintyre would not have thought an ordinary drug addict anything to reckon with: the effects are too ruinous. But in spite of all the lurid stories, marijuana is a mild sort of dope, which leaves more control than alcohol and probably does less physiological damage than tobacco. If it came to trouble, Larkin was not going to be inconvenienced by a reefer or two.

"Friend of mine," said Guido. He was still tense, his smile a meaningless rictus. But a hope was becoming clear to see on him, that the episode would pass over quietly.

Kintyre did not mean for it to. There was more than coincidence here. If Larkin simply had private business to discuss, even illegal business, Guido would have had no reason to fear trouble. Larkin could merely wait until the professor took his bumbling presence home.

The trouble is, thought Kintyre, I've been asking so many questions. I might irritate Happy here.

Wherefore he dropped his bomb with some care: "Perhaps you can help me, Mr. Larkin. I suppose you know Guido's brother was murdered. Guido won't tell me where he was during that time, Saturday and Sunday, and I'm afraid he might get in trouble with the law."

Guido regarded Larkin like a beggar.

Larkin sat still. So still. It must have been half a minute before he moved. Then he looked through a woman's lashes at Kintyre and said:

"He was with me. We went out and picked daisies all weekend."

Kintyre smiled. "Well, if that's all—" His bomb had missed. He dropped another. "To avoid trouble, though, you'd better both go to the police with a statement."

"You're no cop," said Larkin.

"No. It was only a suggestion." Having bracketed the target, Kintyre dropped his third missile. "If they happen to ask me first what I know about it, I can refer them to you. Where are you staying?"

"Gèsu Cristo," groaned Guido out of a lost childhood.

Larkin's face remained dead. But he laid down his cigarette and said slowly and clearly: "I told you to run along home. This time I mean it, daddy-o."

Kintyre bunched his muscles—only for an instant, then he remembered that he must be at ease, at ease.

"I'm beginning to wonder what you really were doing last weekend, Terry," he said.

There was hardly a visible movement. He heard the click, and the switchblade poised on the bench, aimed at his throat.

"End of the line," Larkin told him without rancor. "On your way. If you know what's good for you, you won't come back."

"Do you know," murmured Kintyre, "I think this really is a case for the police. Ever hear of citizen's arrest?"

Guido's wind rattled in his gullet.

Larkin's blade spurted upward. It was an expert, underhand sticking motion; Kintyre could have died with hardly a noise, in that booth designed not to be looked into from outside.

From the moment the steel emerged, he had realized he was going to get cut. That was half the technique of facing a knife. His last remark had been absolutely sincere: the law needed Larkin a prisoner, now. His left arm moved simultaneously with Larkin's right. The blade struck his forearm and furrowed keenly through the sleeve. It opened the skin beneath, but little more, for Kintyre was already lifting the arm, violently, as the follow-through slid Larkin's wrist across. He smacked the knife hand back against the booth wall.

His own right hand slipped under Larkin's knee. Then he half stood up; his left came down to assist; and he threw Larkin out of the booth.

He followed, out where there was room to deal properly with the boy. Larkin had hit a table (Western movie style, grinned part of Kintyre) and the whole business crashed and skated over the floor.

The bouncer ran ponderously to break up the fight. Kintyre had nothing against him, except that any delay would give Larkin too much time. He ran to meet the bouncer, therefore, stopped a fractional second before collision, and took the body's impact on his hip. It was elementary art from there on in. The bouncer bounced.

Larkin was back on his feet, spitting fury and blood. He'd lost his knife—should be easy to wrap up—Hold it!

The second switchblade gleamed among candles. Kintyre had almost impaled himself. He fell, in the judo manner, cushioned by an arm. Whetted metal buzzed where he had been. Rolling over on his back, Kintyre waited for Larkin to jump at him. Larkin was not that naive. He picked a Chianti bottle off a table and threw it.

Kintyre saved his eyes with an arm hastily raised. The blow was numbing. He whipped to his feet again. The bartender circled on the fringes, gibbering and waving a bungstarter: the typical barroom fight is ridiculous, these two meant what they were doing. The bouncer dragged himself to his hands and knees.

"Call the police," snapped Kintyre. "And for God's sake, some of these tablecloths will start burning any minute!"

The customers were milling away. One of the fairies screamed; the butch stood on a chair and watched with dry avid eyes. Larkin backed off along the wall. Kintyre followed. Larkin wasn't foolish enough to rush; Kintyre would have to.

He waited till there was a small space clear of tables before him. Then he crouched low and ran in. His left arm was up, for a shield. He'd take that toadstabber in the biceps if he must.

Larkin, back against the bar, drew into himself. Almost on one knee, thought Kintyre as he plunged in, like a Roman gladiator trying for the belly. A tactical change was called for.

He shifted course and met the bar six feet from Larkin. His palms came down on it, he used his own speed to leap frogwise up to its surface, pivoting to face Larkin. He made one jump along the bar. His second was into the air. He landed with both feet on Larkin's back, before the other had more than half straightened.

Larkin went down, the knife flying from his hand. Kintyre fell off and went in a heap. This wasn't judo, it wasn't anything; Trig would laugh himself sick if he could watch. But—

Kintyre rolled back. Larkin was climbing unsteadily to his feet. Kintyre pulled him down and got a choking hold from behind. He lay on Larkin's back, his legs and sheer weight controlling the body, one arm around the throat, hands gripping wrists.

"Okay," he panted. "Squirm away. You'll just strangle yourself, you know."

Larkin hissed an obscenity. He was lighter, but Kintyre could feel a hard vitality in him. No matter, he was held now.

"Bartender," wheezed Kintyre. "Call the police—"

Something landed on his head.

It was like an explosion. For a moment he spiraled down toward night. He felt Larkin wriggle free, he groped mindlessly but his hands were empty and the world was blackness and great millstones.

Then he was aware once more. Guido crouched beside him, shaken and sobbing, and pawed at his bleeding scalp with a handkerchief. "Oh, God, Doc, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Are you hurt?"

Kintyre looked around. "Where'd Junior go?" he croaked.

"Out the back door. Christ, Doc, I had to, you don't know what—Mary, Mother of God, forgive me, but—"

Kintyre stood up, leaning on Guido. A small riot was developing among the clientele and the help. He ignored it, brushing someone aside without even looking. The singer's stool lay at his feet. Guido must have clobbered him with that.

"Suppose you tell me why," he said.

"I—Get out. Get out before the cops come. I'll cover for you—tell them I don't know who you are, you were a stranger and—Get out!" Guido pushed at him, still weeping.

"I don't have anything to fear from them," said Kintyre. "It strikes me that maybe you do."

"Maybe," whispered Guido.

"Bruce died in a nasty way."

"This isn't—nothing to do with—I swear it, Doc, so help me God I do. Think I'd ever—It's something else, for Christ's sake!" Guido spoke in a slurred muted scream. "It's not only the cops I'm scared of, Doc, it's the others. They'd kill me!"

Kintyre studied him for a long second.

After all, he thought, this was Bruce's brother. And Corinna's.

"Okay," he said. "I promise you nothing. I, at least, will insist on knowing what this is all about. When I do, perhaps I'll decide the police ought to be told, and perhaps not. But for now, good night, Guido."

He turned to go out the rear exit. Faintly through the main door, he heard approaching sirens, but there was time enough to get into a back alley and thence to his car.

He realized, suddenly, with an unsurprised drowsy delight like the aftermath of love, that the horror had left him. When he continued his search for Larkin and for that more terrible thing which Larkin must represent, it would be from honor, because he was taking it on himself not to tell the police at once that there was a mansticker loose in their city. He would not be merely running from his private ghosts.

Tonight he would be able to sleep.

He paused at the door, looking back. "Good night, Guido," he repeated. "And thanks again for the song."

7
Two brawls in succession had not tired him; he got more exercise than that in an evening at the dojo. But the strain of the time before had had its effect. He woke with a fluttering gasp and saw dust motes dance in a yellow sunbeam. The clock said almost nine.

"Judas priest," he groaned. Suddenly it came to him that he had left Guido unguarded. So much for the amateur detective.

He sprang from bed and twirled the radio controls. Having found a newscast, he went into the bathroom and showered; Trig Yamamura had beaten that much Zen into his thick head. Through the water noise, he heard that more money was necessary so the nation's bought friends would stay bought; that the countries which had simply given their friendship were being imperialistic, i.e., hanging on to their overseas property, and therefore unworthy of help; that subversive elements in the bottle cap industry were to be investigated; and that Mother Bloor's Old Time Chicken Broth was made by a new scientific process which "sealed in" tiny drops of chicken goodness. Nothing was said about another murder.

Kintyre sighed and gave himself time to cook breakfast. If Guido hadn't been killed last night, he must be safely asleep at home by now. There were a few hours to spare.

He got into slacks and a gray sports shirt: he hated neckties and had no reason to wear one today. First, he decided, he must see Trig. After that he could wind up Bruce's University job. And, yes, he would take a closer look at the Book of Witches.

Yamamura's office was unimpressively above a drugstore in downtown Berkeley, a mile or so to walk. Kintyre found him polishing a Japanese sword. "Hi. Isn't this a nice one?" he boasted mildly. "I picked it up last week. It's only Tokugawa period, but get the heft, will you?"

Kintyre drew the blade. It came suddenly alive. He returned it with a faint sense of loss. "I could have used that chopper last night," he said.

"Yeh." Narrow black eyes drifted across him, the plaster high on his forehead and the outsize Band-Aid on his left forearm. "What happened, and is she going to prefer charges?"

"I suspect I met Bruce Lombardi's murderer," said Kintyre. "Or one of them."

Yamamura slid the sword carefully into its plain wooden scabbard. He took out his oldest briar and stuffed the bowl. Kintyre had finished his account by the time the pipe had a full head of steam up.

"—So I came on home."

Yamamura looked irritated. "It's your own stupid fault Larkin got away," he said. "Obviously you were holding your neck muscles tense. The stool wouldn't have hurt you to speak of if you weren't." He waggled his pipestem. "How often must I tell you, relax? Or don't you want to win your black belt?"

"Come off it," said Kintyre. "Look, what I'm afraid of is that Larkin, or someone associated with him, may decide Guido isn't safe to leave alive."

"All right. Let Guido ask the police for protection."

"He can't. I don't know why, but he doesn't dare. He'd rather take his chances with Larkin."

"I'd suggest that if he's that scared of the authorities, he deserves whatever he'll get."

"Don't be such a damned prig. Guido may be an accessory, of course, but I hate to think that. Why write him off before we're sure he wasn't just someone's dupe?"

"Mmmm. What has all this to do with me?"

"I want you to keep an eye on him."

"So? What's wrong with you doing this? Your vacation is coming up. I still have a living to make, and you can't pay me."

"I haven't the skill. And Guido and Larkin both know my face. Also, I do think I can be of some value on this side of the Bay."

"Huh! Sherlock Nero Poirot rides again."

"No. Think, Trig. The probability is that Bruce was killed by one or more professionals. But they didn't do it for fun. Somebody hired them, and that somebody is the real murderer. I've two reasons for wanting to meddle a little bit, rather than simply dumping what I know into the official lap. First, to spare Guido, at least till I'm sure if he's worth sparing or not. But second, this may not be entirely a police problem. They'll concentrate on the actual, physical killers, try to find one or two or three ants in the whole Bay Area antheap. They've no choice about that, it's their duty. Doubtless they'll put a man on the job of finding out who the killers' boss is. But the police don't know anyone concerned very intimately. The boss will have a certain amount of time to cover his tracks. Or to plan another murder.

"I knew Bruce well. I must have met all his friends, however casually. I have met whoever had Bruce killed. It may be sheer megalomania on my part, but I think there's a chance I could get an idea who it was."

Yamamura put his feet on the desk, leaned back, and stared out the window at the street. "Okay," he said at last. "On conditions."

"What?"

"I do have my family to keep. Not to mention my license. I'll undertake a week or so of Guido-guarding as an investment. Because if I could get a clue to the murderers, the boss or his torpedos, if I could give any substantial help to the police, the publicity would be good for my business. But to do anything useful along those lines, I'll have to leave Guido from time to time. I'll tail him when I think he may be in danger, yes, but when I think he's going to be safe for a few hours, I'll go check on something else."

"All right," said Kintyre. "In fact, excellent."

Yamamura looked at him through pipe smoke and said gravely: "If I find reasons why Guido should be arrested, I won't cover for him. I'll turn him in. Furthermore, I could make an error in judgment. I might leave Guido and come back to find Guido plus a knife. Now I sort of like you, Bob, don't ask me why. I'd hate to think you would hold either my informing or my mistake against me."

"Certainly not."

"Are you sure?"

"You know me, Trig."

Yamamura thought it over for a while. "Very well," he said. "Let's get the descriptions, addresses, and whatever else you know."

When they had finished, they were silent a few seconds.

"Oh, what did you find out about Owens?" asked Kintyre.

"Wife and two grown children in New York. Started as a business traveler, years ago; found that his hobby of writing paid more, and quit to write full time; captain's commission during the war, chairborne brigade in Washington—"

"If it takes a criminology degree to enter a bookstore, tell the clerk you're just looking, and read a dust jacket biography, then I'm in the wrong racket."

Yamamura settled himself more comfortably. "Owens has been hanging around Berkeley for several days without obvious motive," he said. "Addressed a writers' club Saturday night, but left early and was presumably on the town. They say at the hotel he slept late on Sunday, but no one remembers when he came in. Played some golf Sunday afternoon, dropped from sight again that night. Since then he's been simply—around. Bored, lonesome, but waiting for something or other."

"In short," said Kintyre, "it's possible he—"

"Did it personally? I don't know. Anything is possible, I guess. He may just have been out on the make, too. The chambermaid at his hotel tells me he's the pawing type. Of course, if the murder was done by proxy, these timetables don't mean anything anyway."

"Of course," said Kintyre.

8
Bruce had shared an office with four other assistants, but they were gone now. Bare of people, it had a hollow quality.

Kintyre went through the desk a final time. There was so little which was personally a man's. A few scrawls on the memo pad, a scratch sheet covered with intricate doodles, Margery's picture, some reference books, and a fat folder of notes relating to his research: no more. It could all be carried away in a single trip.

Kintyre attacked the remaining student papers. That was a mechanical task; few freshmen nowadays ever showed much originality, except in their spelling. Most of his brain idled. It occurred to him that one common element bound together everyone who seemed to figure in this affair. The Italian nation and culture.

Angelo, Maria, Guido Lombardi: All born in Genoa.

Bruce Lombardi: Born over here, but oriented toward the old country, writing his master's thesis as a critical exegesis of a medieval Italian manuscript, corresponding with an uncle in the Italian secret service.

Corinna Lombardi: Well, Bruce's sister; spoke the language too.

Margery Towne: Bruce's girl. Admittedly a weak connection.

Himself, Robert Kintyre: Postgraduate studies of the Renaissance, on a fellowship which kept him in Italy from 1949 to 1951; took his Ph.D. at Cal with a study of those lesser known sociological writings before Machiavelli which had influenced the Florentine realist; returned overseas for a year ending last summer, on another grant to continue his researches; now teaching and working on a book which only specialists would ever read.

Jabez Owens: Visited Europe, including Italy, many times. Claimed, as a semiamateur scholar, to have unearthed some lurid Borgia correspondence, which he had turned to his own profit.

Gerald Clayton: Officer in the Army Quartermaster Corps in Italy, during the latter part of the war. Returned there immediately after his discharge, came back in a couple of years with the American franchise for a new line of Italian motor scooters. Since then he spent half his time abroad, pumping a steadily larger flow of European goods into the United States market, everything from automobiles to perfumes. Also interested in manuscripts. Had several tracked down for him by Italian scholars, bought them, sent them home. He obtained the Book of Witches in Sicily, and carried it along when business took him to San Francisco last fall. Found Kintyre was the man to see, looked him up, asked him to examine the volume for whatever value it had. Kintyre had turned the project over to Bruce; it would make a good M.A. thesis. Clayton had pungled up a couple of thousand dollars as a research grant: a graceful way of making it financially possible for Bruce to give some time to the task. Since then Clayton had frequently seen both Bruce and Kintyre, and shown a real if not very deep interest in the boy's progress.

Gene Michaelis: Served his Navy hitch in the Mediterranean theater. Yes, Bruce had mentioned that. What might have happened during Gene's Italian shore leaves was an intriguing question.

Peter Michaelis: Gene's father, as embittered as he toward the Lombardi tribe.

Terry Larkin: No connection demonstrated, but it was quite possible in this land of many races.

"Holy Hieronymus," muttered Kintyre, "next thing I'll be looking for a Black Hand."

But melodramatic and implausible facts were still stubbornly facts.

He completed his task about noon, turned in the papers and reports, and got the Book of Witches from the department safe. He wanted a better acquaintance with this thing.

Bruce's office was too empty. He took the manuscript and the folder of notes to his own room. It was just as bare and quiet between these walls, but more familiar. He could look out the window to lawns and blowing trees and sunlight spilling over them—without thinking that Bruce lay frozen under a sheet.

He put the book on his desk with care. It was almost six hundred years old.

The phone rang. He jerked in surprise, swore at himself, and picked it up. "Hello?"

"Kintyre? Jabez Owens."

"Oh. What is it?"

"I called your home and you weren't in, so I tried—How are you?"

"I'll live. What's the occasion?"

"I wondered—I'd like to talk to you. Would you care to have lunch with me?"

"No, thanks." Kintyre had better plans than to watch Owens perform. "I'm busy."

"Are you sure?" The voice was worried.

"Quite. I'll be here for some hours. I'll just duck out for a sandwich." Maliciously: "I've some work to do on Bruce's project. Afterward—"

What? Well, he hadn't called Margery today. He supposed, with a faintly suffocated feeling, that he ought to see her. "I have an engagement," he finished.

"Oh." Hesitantly: "Do you think I could drop up to your office, then? It really is urgent, and it may be to your own advantage."

"Sure," said Kintyre, remembering his wish to play sleuth. "Walk into my parlor." He gave Owens the room number and hung up. Then he returned to the Book of Witches.

It was a thick palimpsest, a little over quarto size. The binding, age-eaten leather with rusted iron straps, was perhaps a century newer than the volume itself. He opened it, heavy in his hands, and looked at the title page. Liber Veneficarum—

Book of Witches, Their Works and Days, Compiled from Records and the Accounts of Trustworthy Men, Done at the Sicilian Abbey of St. John the Divine at the Command of the Abbot Rogero, for the Attention and Use of the Authorities of Our Holy Mother Church.

When Clayton first brought it around, Kintyre had only skimmed through the black uncials in a hasty fashion. He knew there had been considerable Satanism in the Middle Ages, partly pagan survivals and partly social protest, but that had not seemed to be in his immediate line. A man has only time to learn a few things before the darkness takes him back.

Now he opened Bruce's folder and began to read the notes. Some were typewritten, some still in pothooks harder to decipher than the fourteenth century Low Latin. But they were in order, and their own references were clearly shown. Bruce had been a good, careful scholar.

Well—Kintyre turned to the first page. It was very plain work, unilluminated. The opening sentences described the purpose: to set forth exactly what the witchcraft movement was, how widespread and how dangerous to the Faith and the state. Sources were given, with some commentary on their trustworthiness. The Middle Ages did not lack critical sense. The monk wrote soberly of witchcraft as a set of real activities in the real world; he wasted very little time on the demons presumed to be the object of worship.

Kintyre struggled with his memory, brought back an approximate recollection of a later passage, and hunted for it again. Yes, here, near the middle: an account of a thirteenth century witch hunt in northern Italy, a follow-up to the Albigensian Crusade. The author said that since then there had been no covens worth mentioning north of Abruzzi, and cited proof—statements by Church and secular investigators, a couple of confessions extracted by torture.

Bruce's notes at this point gave confirming cross references. A penciled afterthought occurred: "If there were no organized Satanists in the Romagna in 1398, it hardly seems reasonable that Cesare Borgia could have joined them a century later!" Evidence was marshaled to show there had been no revival in the meantime. Rather, the cults had been on the wane throughout the fifteenth century, as prosperity and enlightenment spread.

Well, thought Kintyre, that does pretty well sink Owens' boat.

Something caught his eye. He leaned over the sheet. A fifteenth century "discourse," an official report, in the state archives of Milan was quoted to support the claim that there was no contemporary local Black Mass. In the margin was scribbled "L.L."

Private abbreviations could be weird and wonderful, but Kintyre found himself obscurely irritated. So much was unknown about Bruce's final destiny, even an initial might tell something.

He found the letters several times more in the next hour, as he worked his way through the volume and the notes. They seemed to mark findings which could only be made in Italy: by going out and looking at a site, or by reading in ancient libraries.

The telephone interrupted him again. He glanced at his watch. Two o'clock already! He grew aware that he was hungry.

"Hello. Robert Kintyre speaking."

The voice in his ear was low. It stumbled the barest bit. "Professor Kintyre. This is Corinna Lombardi."

"Oh." He sat gaping into the mouthpiece like a schoolboy, feeling his heartbeat pick up. "Oh, yes," he said stupidly.

"I wanted to apologize to you."

"Hm?" With an effort, he pulled himself toward sense. "What the dev—What in the world is there to apologize for?"

"Last night. I was horrible."

Habit took over, the smoothness of having known many women; but his tone was burred. "Oh, now, please don't be silly. If you won't mind my saying so at a time like this, I thought you were quite extraordinarily pleasant to meet."

Did he catch the unsubstantial wisp of a chuckle? "Thank you. You're very kind. But I did pull a regular Lady Macbeth. It was nerves. I was tired and miserable. I hope you'll believe how sorry I've been all day. I've spent the past half hour at the phone, trying to track you down."

"If I'd known that, I'd have laid a paper trail—Blast!" Kintyre checked himself. "Now it's my turn to ask your pardon. I wasn't thinking."

"It's all right," she said gently.

"No, but—"

"Really it is. Now that the requiem Mass has been held, the solemn one Mother wanted—it was almost like a real funeral. Everything looks different now."

"Yes, I saw the announcement. I couldn't come, I had to finish his work."

"I could envy you that," she said. Then, with a lifting in her tone: "I came back and slept. I woke up only an hour ago. It's like a curtain falling. Bruce is dead, and that will always hurt, but we can go on now with our own lives."

He hovered on the edge of decision, wondering what to do, afraid of the ghoul she might think him. A line from The Prince came: "... it is better to be impetuous than cautious, for fortune is a woman—" All right, he told himself.

"There's one thing, Miss Lombardi."

"Yes?" She waited patiently for him to sort out his words.

"I haven't forgotten what you did say last night. I went ahead and looked into it, your ideas, I mean."

"Oh?" A noncommittal noise, not openly skeptical.

"I can tell you something you may feel better for."

"What?" Caution, now, not of him but of the thing he might say.

"The phone is hardly suitable. Could we get together in person?"

"Well—" It stretched into seconds, which he found unnaturally long. Then, clearly, almost gaily: "Of course. Whenever you like."

"This evening? You're at your parents' home still, aren't you?"

"I'm going back to my own place today. But this evening will be fine."

He said with careful dryness: "Bearing in mind that I am a somewhat respectable assistant professor of history and more than a decade your senior, may I suggest dinner?"

She did actually chuckle that time. "Thank you, you may. No references needed; Bruce told me enough about you. And it's a good deal better than sitting alone brooding, isn't it?"

He had gotten the address and a six-thirty date before he wholly realized what was going on. When the phone was back in its cradle, he sat for some indefinite time. Oh, no! he thought at last. Impossible. I'm too old to be romantic and too young to be tired.

He decided to eat before going back to the manuscript.

While he went out for a sandwich and milkshake, while he walked back again, he twisted his attention to the problem of the book. It could have wrought a man's death, or it could only be a stack of inked parchment. Most likely the latter; but then who or what was L. L?

The building was gloomy when he re-entered it from sunlight. Even his office seemed dark. It took his eyes a few seconds to register the fact that the book was gone.

9
Kintyre stood for a little while more, scarcely thinking.

Then, during an instant, he had a vision of tiny black devils fluttering through the half-open window, lifting the volume and squeaking their way out on quick charred wings. But no, no, this was the twentieth century. We are rational, we don't believe in witchcraft, we are scientific and believe in vitamin pills, Teamwork, and the inalienable right of every language to have a country of its own. Also, the phase of the moon was wrong, and—and—

His mind steadied. He whirled about the desk, to see if the book had somehow slid off. No. He snatched up the phone and called the main office. Had anyone come into his room in the past twenty minutes? We don't know, Dr. Kintyre. No, we did not pick up your book. No, we didn't see anyone.

He put back the instrument and tried to start his thoughts. It was curiously hard. He tended to repeat himself. Someone must have come in. Yes, someone must have come in. It would be easy to do, unobserved. Someone must have come in and taken the book.

What the hell had Margery's apartment been burgled for?

That snapped him back to wakefulness. If, as Clayton had suggested yesterday, the burglar was after this volume and hadn't found it, the University was the next logical place to try.

Owens! I told him I'd go out to eat. He could have watched the entrance.

But where was he now?—Wait. Close your eyes, let the mind float free, don't strain too hard—memory bobbed to the surface. Owens had mentioned taking a room in the Bishop, a hotel conveniently near campus.

Kintyre forced himself into steadiness. If Owens had copped the book, Owens would want to get rid of it. Permanently. But leather and parchment don't burn easily. Dumping it meant too much chance of its being noticed and recovered. Owens would take it to Los Angeles with him, to destroy at leisure.

He was probably packing at this moment.

Kintyre tucked Bruce's notes into a drawer which he locked: not that they had any value without the physical evidence of the book. He went down the hall fast, a pace he kept up on the outside. His brain querned until he brought it under control. Damn it, Trig was right, there was no reason on God's earth ever to tense any muscle not actually working; and the same held true for the mind. An emotional stew would grind him down and get him to the Bishop no sooner.

It was a hard discipline, though. Kintyre had no urge to embrace Zen Buddhism, or any other faith for that matter; but he would have given much to possess the self-mastery it taught.

He entered the modest red-brick building a few blocks from Sather Gate and asked for Mr. Owens. The clerk checked the key rack and said: "Oh, yes, he came in a few minutes ago."

"I'll go on up, I'm expected," said Kintyre. It was probably not a lie.

When he knocked on the writer's door, he heard himself invited in. Owens had one suitcase open on the bed and was folding a coat into it. Another stood strapped on the floor.

He looked up (was his color a shade more rubicund?) and said, "Hullo, there. I'm glad you came by. I'm leaving tonight."

The voice was level. Perhaps too level. Kintyre closed the door and said: "I thought you were going to come and see me in my office."

"Well, I was," said Owens. "I wanted to get my packing out of the way first." He felt in the suitcase and brought out a pocket flask. "Care for a drop?"

"No," said Kintyre.

He leaned in the doorway, watching. But he saw only that Owens stood neatly attired, calm of face, steady of hands, putting up a linen suit.

"What brings you here?" asked the writer.

Kintyre countered: "Isn't this a rather sudden decision to leave?"

"Mm, yes. I made the reservation just a few minutes ago. But I haven't much reason to stay here any longer, have I?"

"The Lombardi murder."

Owens shook his head. "Poor chap. But what can I do about it? I assure you, the police didn't ask me to stay in town."

He gave Kintyre a straight look, smiled, and went on: "Why don't you sit down and talk to me, though? I'm more or less stuck till Clayton arrives. He said he'd meet me here."

"Clayton? Why—" Kintyre moved slowly forward, to the armchair Owens waved at. He continued talking, inanely. "I thought Clayton was in the City. He told me yesterday when we had lunch, he told me he'd be going right over there and didn't expect to come back to this side in the near future."

"Oh? I called him at the Fairhill, just before you got here. He was right in his suite."

Kintyre sat down. "What did you want him for?"

"To make him an offer for the Book of Witches."

"What!"

"Take it easy," advised Owens. "You don't own the thing."

The effort not to pounce left Kintyre rigid. He managed finally to say: "I suppose that was what you wanted to see me about, to offer me the same bribe Bruce wouldn't take."

"I see you've gotten a somewhat biased version." Owens' reply had the blandness of conscious mastery. "Yes, it was to be a similar offer. Not that I don't stand behind my contentions in the Borgia matter, but you people in this academic cloudland don't realize that the rest of us have a living to make. I have no time at present to dig into minutiae, and anyhow there are more important things in life. What I asked Lombardi was that he postpone the argument. Not perjure his precious self, only wait a while. There were enough other things to be written about, anent that book. He didn't have to raise the Borgia issue at all. Maybe in five or ten years—"

"Since you brought up the Borgia issue, as you call it, in the first place," said Kintyre harshly, "we in cloudland have no choice. If there's a notorious error afoot, we've got to correct it. What the hell do you think we get paid for?"

"Publicity," said Owens. "Ornament. A ritual bow in the direction of yesterday." He took forth a silver case, opened it, fetched out a long cigarette and tapped it on his thumbnail.

"You claim to be a realist," he said. "Then why don't you admit the facts? This business of scholarship, verification, the painful asymptotic approach to truth—it's dead. It went out with the society of aristocrats. This is a proletarian age." He lit the cigarette. His trained lecture-circuit voice rolled out, urbane, whimsical, with a bare touch of sadness. "He who dances must pay the piper, but he who pays the piper may call the tune. Since the bills today are all being footed by slobs, what do you expect but the onward march of slobbery? One day you'll be fired in the name of government economy. I'll hang on a little longer, because I gauge the current level of oafishness and make each succeeding book conform; but sooner or later it will be too much trouble for the public even to read my swill. Then I'll settle down to live on my investments, and perhaps I can even go back to a little honest scholarship. But not now. First I must survive."

Kintyre said slowly, caught up in spite of himself: "Granted, this is the century of the common mind. But what makes you think it will last, even long enough for you to collect on those investments? This is also the so-called atomic age."

Owens lifted his shoulders and let them fall again, gracefully. "How do I know I won't be hit by a car tomorrow? One estimates the situation and acts on probabilities."

Kintyre leaned forward. "The probabilities are all for the worst," he said. "Anyone who claims a roomful of people, all with grenades and all hating each other, will keep on acting rationally forever, is whistling past the graveyard of a dozen earlier civilizations. But I do believe scholarship—rigorous thinking—will be a survival factor. And afterward it will be one of the things which will make cultural rebuilding worth while. So I won't quit trying. It isn't for nothing."

He stood up, not as tall as Owens, but broader and smoothly moving. "Let me therefore have that manuscript back," he finished.

His enemy kept a half smile; but as he neared, Kintyre saw how cheeks and forehead began to glisten. The pupils that stared at him widened until they were two wells of dark.

"What are you talking about?" said Owens shrilly.

"You know bloody damn well what I mean. You took the Book of Witches. Give it back and we'll say no more. Otherwise—"

Kintyre was almost upon the writer. Owens backed away, holding up his cigarette like a futile sword. "Look here," he protested. "Look here, now."

There came a rap on the door. Owens went limp with relief. "Come in!" he yelled.

Kintyre realized bitterly how he had been snared. Owens had thrown out words which he knew the other must stop to answer. It had gained him a few seconds that might well make his victory; Kintyre took him for a physical coward who would not have stood up long even to verbal browbeating.

Or did I actually intend to wring it from him with my hands? The thought was so shocking that Kintyre stepped back.

Gerald Clayton entered, massive in gray, his narrow face wearing only a routine smile. It became more nearly genuine when he saw Kintyre. "Why, hello, there," he said. "What's going on?"

Owens threw his opponent a look. If you don't say anything about this, I won't. Kintyre held himself expressionless, waiting.

"Sit down, Mr. Clayton, do sit down." Owens gestured him to a chair. "I appreciate your coming. I know your time is valuable."

The importer seated himself and took out a cigar. Owens hovered around with his pocket flask; the drink was declined. Kintyre leaned against the wall, arms folded, and strove for calm.

"I wasn't very busy," said Clayton. "Glad of a chance to get away, in fact." He nodded at Kintyre and explained: "Something came up which forces me to stay in Berkeley at least till tomorrow. But it involves mostly waiting till I can see the person in question. So what did you want, Jabez?"

Owens shot another glance at Kintyre, gathered himself, and said: "I wondered if you'd be interested in selling the Liber Veneficarum?"

Clayton's mouth bent upward, creasing his lean cheeks. "Whatever for?" he asked, almost merrily. "I'm a collector."

"Well." Owens sat down on the bed, more at ease now. "You're aware of my argument with Bruce Lombardi. I admit it's possible I was cheated on those letters—" or commissioned the forgeries yourself, reflected Kintyre—"and if not, at least the case against me deserves careful refutation. So I would like to have the manuscript, to study at my own leisure."

"And never get around to publishing your findings?" asked Clayton. But he said it in a twitting, inoffensive tone.

"It might take me a few years," said Owens doggedly. "I've other work to do. However, I'm prepared to make a fair offer for the book. Or, if you don't want to sell, I would like to borrow it for a year or two, under suitable guarantees against loss."

Clayton rubbed his chin. "Seems to me that Bob has some rights in this matter," he declared.

Kintyre stepped a pace forward. His voice snapped out: "The reason I came here is that the manuscript was stolen from me."

"What?" Clayton shouted it, half rose, sat down again and puffed hard at his cigar. "What happened?" he said roughly.

Kintyre related the morning. "It fits pretty well," he concluded. "First he plans an attempt to bribe me, as he tried to bribe Bruce. Did you know he offered Bruce five thousand dollars to withhold his findings? I mention on the phone I'll be going out to lunch. Since he doesn't really expect I'll bribe either, Owens hangs around. When he sees me leave, he ducks up into my office. If the book isn't there, he can always try the original scheme. But it's right on my desk, and I apologize for my own carelessness. Owens takes it back here. Then, to cover himself, he phones you with this offer to buy—as if he didn't know it was gone!"

Kintyre finished in a growl: "That suitcase on the floor, already packed, would hold a quarto volume very easily."

Clayton remained impassive.

The writer said with strained calm: "I ask you to witness this, sir. I'm thinking of a suit for slander."

"That book is worth enough to make it theft grand larceny," said Clayton.

"And what alibi does the good Professor Kintyre have?" flung Owens.

"Who but you has a motive for the book to disappear?" said Kintyre. "By God—"

Owens got off the bed and retreated again. Kintyre strode up to him and laid a hand about his wrist. He did not squeeze unduly hard, but Owens opened his mouth to scream, face going paper colored. Kintyre dropped the wrist as if it had turned incandescent. The reaction was unnatural enough, to his mind, to jar him physically.

"That'll do!" rumbled Clayton. He stood up. His grizzled ruddy hair made Kintyre think of a lion's mane, a fighting cock's comb; this man had slugged his own way up from nothingness.

"That'll do," he repeated. "If we can't settle it between ourselves like gentlemen, we'd better call the police."

Owens fumbled his way to the pocket flask, raised it and gulped. A little blood returned to his skin. "I thought you were going to hit me," he said in a tiny voice. "I never could—"

"Owens," said Clayton, "did you steal the book?" His tone fell like iron.

"No." The writer put his flask down on the bureau. He remained standing above it, leaning on his hands, looking back over a hunched shoulder. "No, of course not."

"Mind if we look around to make sure?"

"I don't wish my baggage opened," said Owens. "You haven't the right."

Kintyre, with a measure of control restored to him, said: "We could prefer charges and have the police look."

"Go ahead," said Owens more firmly. "I'll sue you for every nickel you've got. I'd enjoy that."

"I don't like trouble," said Clayton. "If you have the book, return it. We'll say you—borrowed it—nobody else ever has to hear a word."

Owens whirled around. "That's a reflection on my integrity!" he shouted.

"If you really are innocent," said Clayton in a patient way, "I should think you'd want your integrity confirmed."

Owens studied them for a moment.

"All right," he said. "I don't blame you, Mr. Clayton. Your reaction is very understandable. But this character—Mr. Clayton, in case I decide to sue him, and I probably will, remember exactly what happened today. Now go ahead and search."

The importer squatted by the suitcase. It didn't take him long to go through the neatly packed clothing. There was no book.

10
"Somewhere else," mumbled Kintyre. "Under the bed."

"Stand aside," said Clayton.

He went to work, peering, poking, moving about the room and its bath like a professional. He found places to check which Kintyre would not have thought of in a week's hunt; and yet the broad ropy-veined hands, which had once wielded a shovel, made little disarrangement.

Owens sat down, poured himself another drink, and sipped as if it were victory he tasted. Kintyre stood by the window sill, wrestling himself toward calm. He had not yet fully achieved it when Clayton said: "Not in here."

"Well," murmured Owens.

Clayton puffed blue smoke, sat down on the bed, and gave them both a quizzical glance. "I suppose an apology is in order," he said.

Owens waved his cigarette. "Look," he replied, giving it the complete treatment, "I've cooled off a bit myself. I can see how you were overwrought, Professor, from the death of your friend—and, to be sure, the loss of a valuable relic entrusted to you." Kintyre held his mouth stiff. "If you'll take this as a lesson, I for my part am willing to forget it."

"You might thank the man, Bob," added Clayton lightly.

Kintyre grunted. What could you say?

"It's worth while reviewing the facts, though," went on Clayton. "Maybe between us we can figure who did swipe it."

"No students around," said Owens.

"True. But anybody could have lounged outside till Bob left and then walked up into his office, without much risk of being seen. Right?"

Kintyre nodded. His neck ached with tension.

"Okay." Clayton blew a smoke ring. "I guess we can rule out an ordinary thief. He wouldn't pick a college building. How about other people with offices there?"

Kintyre stirred. "Now, wait," he began.

Clayton waved him back. "Take it easy, Bob. Just for the record, is anybody but you working in that place between sessions?"

"Well, some," he forced himself to say. "It's a sizable department. And then the clerical staff, and janitors. But for God's sake!"

"Their own office doors wouldn't be locked, though?"

"Hm? No, I suppose not. At least, a number wouldn't be. Even if they weren't in today, there'd be nothing to steal."

"Except manuscripts." Owens had been seated, listening with a tolerant smile. Now he said in a cool voice, "Not to follow the recent bad example of accusations, but what is your alibi, Kintyre?"

"No motive!"

"Oh? I daresay there are other wealthy collectors besides Mr. Clayton. With your contacts, you could have learned who they are. Mind you, I don't charge you with anything, but—"

"Cut it out," interrupted Clayton. It was so cold a phrase that they both turned startled faces to him.

He got up. "This farce has gone on long enough," he said. "Jabez, give me my book."

"What?" Owens leaned away. Clayton walked toward him. Owens lifted a fending arm.

"I don't feel like hunting through a lot of rooms for it," said Clayton. "Which did you leave it in?"

"But—but—but—"

"Do I have to spell it out? It's plain to see, either you or Bob took the thing. Who the hell else is there? I credit Bob with brains enough to steal it more neatly. Like setting an 'accidental' fire he could tell me burned it. You had to work fast, though. Play by ear. You grabbed it exactly as Bob thought. Only you realized he'd come back in a few minutes and go howling on your trail. What better way to throw him off it than to let him make a fool of himself before me—me, the owner, who's really got a right to blow his stack?"

Clayton stood over Owens with the big fists on his hips, beating him about the head with words. "You left it in one of those empty offices, or maybe in the can. They won't lock the main entrance till five o'clock or so, I guess. You could have picked the thing up again at your convenience, when Bob had gone off with his tail between his legs. It was fun while it lasted, Jabez, but now suppose you tell me where that book is."

"I didn't!" screamed Owens.

"I don't want to press charges," said Clayton. "Tell me, and we'll call it quits. Otherwise we can all wait right here for the police."

Owens began to shake. Kintyre looked away, feeling a little sick himself. "All right," said Clayton and picked up the phone.

"No," whimpered Owens. "Don't."

"Well?" Clayton paused, one finger in a dial hole.

Owens got out a room number. "Under the desk," he added, and lowered his face into his hands.

"Can we check that from here?" asked Clayton.

Kintyre nodded, took the phone and called the department. He asked one of the girls to look, feeding her a story about having lent the volume out. Then he held the line and waited.

"Well," said Clayton. He drew on his cigar, relaxed visibly, and laughed. "Maybe I ought to set up as a private eye. Know any hard-boiled blondes?"

"Nice work," said Kintyre inadequately. "Good Lord, if that book really had been lost!"

"It wouldn't have been your fault," said Clayton. "Forget it."

Kintyre looked down at a shuddering back. "It seems to be my turn now, Owens," he said. "No hard feelings. Va' tu con Dio."

"No," said Clayton. "I'm afraid not."

Kintyre stared up again, into the narrow face and the deeply ridged eyes. "I thought," he said, "I thought you wouldn't—"

"Prefer charges? Not about a lousy manuscript. My time's worth too much. But Bruce Lombardi was murdered, remember?"

Owens lifted a seared countenance and gasped: "No, you can spare me that much, can't you?"

"I hope so," said Clayton impersonally. "But the fact remains, Bruce was a threat to a fat piece of Hollywood cash."

"He was going to expose the Borgia fraud publicly, as well as in specialized journals," said Kintyre, not wanting to.

"That made it even more urgent," said Clayton. "If Bruce should die and the book disappear, I don't know who'd stand to benefit more than you."

Owens emitted a little moaning noise and shriveled back into the mask of his hands. "You see?" said Clayton.

"Wait," protested Kintyre. "I can't really believe he—"

"I'm open to proof," said Clayton.

Kintyre fell silent.

After a while the girl's voice said in the phone: "I found it, Dr. Kintyre. Right where you told me."

"Thanks a lot," he answered automatically. "Would you put it in the safe?" He nodded and hung up.

"Good," said Clayton. He spoke slowly and carefully to Owens' bent head: "We'll leave now. You stay around Berkeley for a while. I'm going to have to call your motive to the attention of the police, so if you left there'd probably be a warrant for you by tonight. But I won't say anything about your peccadillo this afternoon. And if you're innocent, I recommend that you start scrounging around for witnesses to where you were all weekend."

"Whoof!" said Kintyre when he was in the lobby. "I wouldn't like to go through that again."

"Nor I," said Clayton. "Let's have something wet."

They went into the coffee shop and ordered. Kintyre said: "Owens didn't do the murder. I doubt if he's capable of killing his own flies."

"Himself," said Clayton shortly. "He could have hired a torpedo. He's got money enough. Not that killers come fabulously expensive."

Almost, Kintyre told him of last night. He stopped with the words at his teeth. After this hour's performance, it seemed too probable that Clayton would insist on telling the San Francisco authorities about Larkin, on the instant, and the consequences to Guido (and thereby to Guido's parents and Corinna) go hang.

As far as that goes, I suppose I've made myself an accessory after the fact or something.

They remained in a companionable silence until the coffee had arrived. It was refreshing to know an unfrantic businessman; but then, Clayton had acquired a lot of European traits.

The importer asked suddenly: "Have you seen Miss Towne?"

"Not today," said Kintyre, surprised.

"Were you planning to?"

"Why—yes. I thought I'd drop around this afternoon. She told me she didn't feel up to working for the rest of this week."

"It might be better if she did," said Clayton. "She'll sit at home and grieve, or go out and laugh more than she means. Drinking too much in either case."

"You seem to know her pretty well," said Kintyre. He felt a bit annoyed, he didn't know why.

"I met her a few times is all. But she's pretty transparent, under all that careful sophistication, isn't she?" Clayton stirred his coffee, focusing on the spoon as if it were some precision instrument. "A good kid."

"She's all right," said Kintyre.

"I suppose you feel an obligation toward her?"

Kintyre bridled. "I didn't mean to keyhole," said Clayton hurriedly. "I just couldn't help wondering what'll become of her. Somebody has to help her over the hump. She'll never make it alone."

Against his own principles of respect for privacy, Kintyre found himself speculating. Where had Clayton picked up such intuitions? His first wife, whom he had loved, seemed by his few chance remarks and his Who's Who biography to have been the conventional helpmeet of a conventional young man in the thirties: grocery clerk, salesman, pitchforked down by the Depression, up again via WPA to construction foreman to warehouse foreman to minor executive. Finally she got tuberculosis, with complications, and took a couple of years to die. The medical bills ruined him; he parked the three children with relatives for years. Afterward, on the way up once more in the defense boom and the early war boom, he married the boss's daughter. He got to be general superintendent of an aircraft plant before he learned what a bitch she was. The divorce cost him that job and his savings. He applied for an Army commission and got one in 1943.

Kintyre knew little else; his information was only the gossip one is bound to encounter. Clayton had been a fairly large figure in Italy when Kintyre went over for the second time.

"Eh?" he said, pulled back to awareness.

"I asked if you wanted to take her out tonight," repeated Clayton.

"Uh—"

"Somebody ought to." As if he had heard Kintyre's thoughts, Clayton said with an enormous gentleness: "She reminds me a lot of my daughter."

Clayton had never had any great chance to be a father, reflected Kintyre. After the war, his kids ended up in exclusive boarding schools while Dad was overseas reaping the money to keep them there. Now they were grown. The girl had been graduated last year and was still making her Grand Tour. Clayton sometimes bragged about her, in clumsy generalities: he scarcely knew her as a person. The second son was also worth a cautious boast or two, apparently a solid-citizen type, an engineer; he and his father doubtless exchanged very dutiful letters. The older boy, you didn't hear much about. You got an impression of a sinecure in the firm's New York office and divorce number three currently going through the mill.

Kintyre wondered, suddenly, if he had ever known anyone more alone than Clayton.

It came to him that an answer was expected. "No," he said, "I have another engagement this evening."

"Not one you could break? She does need help."

"So does Miss Lombardi. Bruce's sister. I have some news for her that could make a big difference."

Clayton paused a moment. Then he grinned. "Well, in that case," he said, "d'you mind if I squire Miss Towne?"

Kintyre looked up, startled. He had been slipping into a mood of utter oleaginous sentimentalism. Pity Clayton? The hell! You wouldn't think the man was past forty. He sat there with more life in his eyes than two buccaneer captains.

"Good heavens, no," exclaimed Kintyre. "Why ever should I?"

Margery could do a lot worse, he thought. He knew his eagerness was chiefly to get rid of whatever responsibility he bore for her. Nevertheless—A lot worse!

11
It was after four when Kintyre entered Margery's apartment. She had neglected its housekeeping, and the air was acrid with smoke.

Slacks and sweater emphasized her figure. He had almost forgotten how good it was. When she sprang from the couch and into his arms he found himself kissing her without really having intended to.

"Oh, God, Bob," she whispered. "You came. Hold me close, kiss me again, I need it."

Her nails dug into his flesh, painfully, and her lips were tense against his. And yet it was but little a sexual passion, he realized; she was altogether forlorn.

"Rough?" he asked. He freed one arm and rumpled the short coppery hair.

"Reporters," she said. "Waiting at the door when I came home today. Like flies around a corpse."

The phone rang. She left it alone; the bell had been turned down. "Most likely someone else panting to pry," she said.

"How—oh, yes," said Kintyre. "The burglary would put them on to it. Or just asking around. You didn't really think your connection with Bruce would escape discovery forever?"

"It'll be smeared over every newsstand in the area. Big black mouth-licking headlines." She raised reddened eyes. "I was at the service this morning. It was all so calm and—I don't know—so right. Even for him." She pulled herself away, picked up a handkerchief and blew her nose. "Excuse me. I can't help it. That was the only sane part of the day. His parents were there, of course, that decent old couple. I didn't have the nerve to talk to them. And now they'll see! They'll know that every moron in town knows their son they were so proud of was, was, with me!"

She fell into a chair, coughing. The phone stopped its petulance.

Kintyre said: "After all, pony, it's no crime in this state. Nor is it a very black sin in the Church. I wouldn't be at all surprised if the Lombardis got in touch with you in the friendliest way. If you loved Bruce too—"

"Did I?" She didn't look at him. "I liked him, yes, but love? Not in the usual sense of the word."

"Which is a pretty neurotic sense anyway, if you're past adolescence," said Kintyre in his driest voice.

She had regained her balance. She reached for a compact and began repairing her makeup. "Bob," she said, "for an intelligent man you can make some of the stupidest remarks on record."

Kintyre smiled. "At least I riled you out of a tailspin." He wandered across the room to the coffee table. An empty cup and an ashtray overflowing with lipsticked butts rested by the long cardboard boxes where Bruce had kept his letters. They were open, and one of the sheets lay out.

Margery came over and took his arm. "I was going through it," she said, suddenly anxious for the everyday. "Mostly it was business correspondence, official papers, that sort of thing. But there's one file in Italian. Maybe you can tell me what it means." The phone buzzed. "Shut up, God damn it!"

Kintyre sat down, taking out a cigarette for himself. He did not quite like reading a dead man's mail. But doubtless it had to be done. "I'll make some more coffee," said Margery. She went out to the kitchen; his eyes shifted in her direction and he felt the animal pleasure of watching her walk. It was possible—once more, after a decent interval?

Then he realized that the lilt within him was because he would be seeing Corinna.

He bent his attention to the file. Sloppy in many other respects, Bruce had been meticulous here. If it was likely to have any future value at all, he typed his own letter, making a carbon for himself, and kept the reply, folded. The section indexed Luigi Lombardi held at least a year's worth of mail.

Luigi. Oh, yes, the uncle in the secret service, amateur scholar—hoy, there! L. L., of course. Kintyre felt chagrined. So much for that mystery. Bruce had only been noting those sections where he would be making an acknowledgment of his uncle's help.

Kintyre began leafing through. No point in reading every word about Aunt Sofia's arthritis or Cousin Giovanni's marriage. But there were pages, where Luigi described exactly what he had looked into for Bruce, that had not yet been transcribed. Those should be preserved, they were essential to the completion of the thesis.

Nothing else had occurred to Kintyre than that it would be finished and published, under Bruce's name.

Yes. Here was that reference to the Milanese archives. It concluded: "... would like to look through the libraries and store-rooms of the older aristocratic homes in this neighborhood. Quite possibly a contemporary reference exists, in a letter or diary. But the time and the introductions are not available to a poor policeman. Why do you not ask your rich American friend Clayton to have it done?"

Bruce's reply was grateful, but forebore to answer that faintly sarcastic question. Uncle Luigi took it up next time. Kintyre remembered the man, how he tried hard to be fair but was unable to refrain from cracks about Americans. It was only natural, if you were the patriot of a poor country: a form of self-defense.

"... Not another Medici. Do you seriously believe he cares about these old books? It is his particular camouflage, to get him among people of breeding who can be useful. His real friends are a coarser sort, if indeed he has any friends except his bank accounts."

Bruce protested: "... He had to make his own way in a world of fists. I think he has done very well, not only as a financier but as a human being. You cannot safely compare him with your own postwar newly-rich. From what I hear, many of them are crasser than any American parvenu ever dared to be. But let us not exchange ritual insults."

Uncle Luigi answered a query about the Sicilian terrain and twisted it around to his particular obsession: "... if you believe his standardized success story. Use your reason, my nephew. Clayton was an Army officer in this country during the last two years of the war. After his discharge, he came right back here. It is uncertain what he did in the next couple of years. Out of a slightly malicious curiosity I checked with the appropriate bureau, and he was registered only as a visitor, who went in and out of our borders. Then suddenly, in 1949, he applied for his business permits. He had obtained the American agency for that new line of motor scooters. Since then, his rise has been somewhat swifter than can be accounted for merely by pyramiding profits. What follows from this, Bruce? (And again I ask why your father had to become so American that he visited that name upon you.) Why, since he had only his military pay during the war, and on his civilian return had no source of income within Italy for two years—he must have been drawing on a considerable capital in America! Our records show him obtaining most of his lire for Swiss francs. Evidently he deposits his dollars in Switzerland, which you know has a free money market, converts them to other currencies as needed, buys goods, and ships those to America to earn more dollars. Therefore all this story he has told you (what is your phrase, from rags to Algernon?) is so much pretentious hokum. Clayton started as a rich man."

Margery came in with coffee. "What are you finding out?" she asked.

"Mostly gossip," said Kintyre. He repeated the gist to her.

"Oh, I remember that. It was several months ago." She sat down on the couch beside him. "Bruce was furious. He thought the world of Clayton. He wrote to Indianapolis and Des Moines and so on. It took him weeks to check everything, through local newspaper offices, old friends, that kind of reference. It's perfectly true, though. I doubt if Clayton had a thousand dollars left to his name when he joined the Army.

"Bruce hadn't gotten around to it yet, but he was going to assemble the facts, with clippings and personal correspondence, and send it all to Luigi in one devastating package. Especially after the last couple of letters he got. Luigi said there was no evidence Clayton had floated a loan to get his start, and wondered if he mightn't have done some currency black marketing. Bruce really blew his top at that."

"Oh?" said Kintyre. He should be on his way soon, he thought, and use the short time until then to be good to Margery. But a certain sense of the chase was on him. Trained to scan reading matter, he found the passage he wanted in a few minutes. Bruce's anger spoke through a cage of civilized words:

"... I am not one of our radical rightists, but I too resent this eternal meddling which is the modern idea of government. It would not surprise me if Clayton profited originally on the free exchange, when the postwar official rates were so ludicrously unreal. Who didn't, in those days? But if so, I say he did you all a service! I swear you could double your production over there simply by abolishing those medieval frontiers and restrictions, and putting the customs men to useful jobs!"

Luigi, after the inevitable reference to American tariffs, wrote: "The problem is more serious and urgent than you understand. One hears less about it than about your similar troubles, but we in the old countries are having our own postwar crime wave. And some of these syndicates are—not mere black markets, not mere smugglers of an occasional perfume bottle—but dealers in narcotics, prostitution, gun-running, extortion, blackmail, counterfeiting, corruption, and murder.

"Yes, I blame your government in part. We watch the criminals they deport to us, but we cannot forbid everyone to come talk to them. There is influence, there is advice. From the Communists these syndicates have also learned much, including the cell type of organization. We can arrest a man here and a man there, but he can only lead us to a few others. Sometimes we think we have identified an organizing brain, but it does not always follow that he can be seized. Not even in this country, where the police have a latitude that I am sure your Anglo-Saxon mind would be shocked by. I name no names, but now and again something rises to the surface, a scandal, the corpse of a young woman who belonged to a proud family, a member of the parliament seen in dubious places—and nothing comes of it. The newspapers are forbidden to follow the story to its end; everywhere protecting hands are reached out.

"Give us time, we will settle with these latter-day condottieri. Meanwhile, I could wish your Clayton were more circumspect in his choice of friends. He associates somewhat (not very much, to be sure, and there are business reasons) with a dealer named Dolce. And Dolce is a hard man from the slums of Naples. One of his associates is the deported Italian-American criminal chief named—"

Bruce's reply to this was a single explosive line: "And you used to wring your hands at me about Senator McCarthy!"

Kintyre put the box aside. He had been translating as he read, in a rapid mutter. "That's the end," he said. "Bruce wrote that two weeks ago, and I guess the uncle hasn't replied yet."

"Clayton," said Margery on a note of horror. "Do you think maybe—?"

"That he's a crook? No. I don't know much about it, but I should certainly imagine that anybody who wanted to keep an import license would have to keep his nose pretty clean. If Clayton started hanging around with, oh, say Chicago gunmen, the FBI would be on his tail in a matter of weeks."

"But couldn't he—"

"Forget Clayton. He's alibied for every minute of that weekend. As for hiring professionals, look, pony, suppose you wanted such a job done. How would you find the pros?"

"Why—" She hesitated, lifting a small hand to her chin. "I don't know."

"You're a law-abiding citizen, so you don't know. Clayton is also reasonably law-abiding. He's got to be. The Italian police might conceivably not be aware of it if Clayton were doing something illicit. Over there, he could operate internationally. But the United States is another proposition. We talk about our free enterprise, but the plain fact is that an American businessman is required to operate in a goldfish bowl, under innumerable petti-fogging regulations. So, I repeat, Clayton must be more or less straight. Even if the US government was unable to indict him for anything, they could rescind his various licenses, virtually by fiat.

"How, then, would he get in touch with an assassin? Walk into a tough bar and ask? Large laugh." Kintyre threw away his cigarette stub. "Oh, sure, given enough time, you or I or anyone could locate a murderer. But this job must have been done on short notice. There was nothing in Bruce's previous life to bring it on. You know how burblesome he was; could he have kept from you, for weeks, the fact that he knew something big? Of course not. Nor from me, or any of his associates. Ergo, it was something he blundered onto lately, probably without even realizing its significance. The person who was threatened by this had to react fast: find his killers and get them here, or do the job himself, within days. That lets Clayton out."

Margery nodded, a trifle overwhelmed. "I'm glad," she said. "I like him, the little I've seen."

"Yeh." Kintyre thought a couple of hours back. "Me too."

She smiled. "But there's still something that he isn't telling. I'm curious to know what."

"You may have your chance to find out tonight," said Kintyre. "I saw him and he mentioned he would call up and ask for a dinner date."

"Oh!" She looked at him, round-eyed. "And I haven't been answering!"

Kintyre laughed. "Turn up that phone bell right away, gal."

She shook her head. The blue eyes darkened with pain. "Only so I could say no in a nice way."

"Huh?"

"I'm not interested. Not yet." For an instant, there was a brightening across her face. "Unless you, Bob—"

"Sorry, kid. I'm tied up tonight." He checked his watch. "In fact, I should have left already."

"Oh," she said listlessly.

"Look here," he said. He took her by the shoulders and forced her to turn around and meet his gaze. "This can only go on so long, then they put you in the foundry. Bruce is dead. We're still alive. Start acting like it."

"It's only been—two days? Three?" She twisted away from him. "Give me time to get used to it."

"You never will, at this rate. I know you."

"You should," she said with a flick of anger. "Your castoff mistress."

"Castoff, hellfire! We terminated an association which—"

"Yes, yes. I've heard that line too. You warned me and so on. Go ahead, call yourself a gentleman."

"Maron!" He sprang to his feet and paced the floor. She leaned back and watched him, breathing hard.

Eventually his temper cooled. "Margery," he said, "I think I know what Bruce meant to you. Besides being someone you cared for, I mean. He was your chance at emotional security, wasn't he? A home, children. Why don't you admit it, you'll always be the little girl from Ohio, and what's wrong with that? The average man will breed the unaverage one again, someday when the human race gets back its health. He has before. But these hipster types are a biological and cultural dead end.

"I can't build your house in Ohio for you. Forget me. Bruce was not your last chance, but if you sit on your tocus feeling sorry for yourself, he will have been. Get the devil out of this hole!"

"Thanks for the counsel," she said. It fell flatly on his ears. The rising fury tinted her and tensed her; she spoke through jaws held stiff. "So much cheaper than help, isn't it? But it happens I choose to stay home tonight. Alone. Starting at once."

Kintyre stopped in midstride. "I'm sorry," he said. "I'm not sure what I did wrong just now, but I'm sorry."

She slumped. "Please go away," she said without tone. "Call me tomorrow if you want, but please go away now."

"All right," he said.

She didn't stir as he went out the door.

He walked fast, being late. Anger changed to concern, and then that faded too, when he had Corinna to think about. Margery would be feeling better tomorrow, he could make friends again. At the moment, he needed a bath and a shave and a change of clothes.

Headlines on a news rack caught his eye, an extra edition. Peter and Eugene Michaelis had been arrested on suspicion of murder.

12
Corinna had an apartment on a quiet street not far from Golden Gate Park. Kintyre had been told by Bruce that she worked on the staff of a small art museum, belonged to a little theater group, owned a light target rifle, and made most of her own clothes. He had seen for himself that she spoke Italian. That was all. He felt ridiculously like a schoolboy on his first date.

She opened her door and smiled him in. High heels put her almost on a level with him. She wore black, which set off her pale hair, but the sleeves flared and the skirt swirled: it was not mourning.

"I'm nearly ready, Dr. Kintyre. Won't you sit down? Watch out for the cat, she bites."

Kintyre enjoyed cats; he would have kept one himself if he had wanted to assume obligations. This was that loveliest of the tribe, a blue-point Siamese, white as new snow and markings like twilight. She flowed up toward his extended fist as he settled in a chair. "What's the name?" he asked.

"Taffimai Metallumai," said Corinna, returning to her bedroom. "If you remember your Kipling, that means Small-Person-Without-Any-Manners-Who-Ought-To-Be-Spanked. But she lives under the name of Tipsy. Gold letters over her door, and so on."

He looked around. This room was individualistically decorated, she must have done it herself, in reds and blues and a couple of delicate Chinese paintings. Her books ran toward poetry, drama, and art; but one shelf held the popular works of Gamow, Russell, Ley, and company. There was a medium-fi and a lot of good records.

Taffimai Metallumai levitated up onto his lap, gave him a sleepy turquoise look, and ordered him to scratch her beneath the chin. She was pure hard muscle under the virginal fur; she must weigh twice as much as any peasant cat her size.

Kintyre took his attention from the corner where a small worktable held an unfinished papier-mache mask. Corinna was coming back in. "That was quick," he said, rising.

"Oh, don't! You're catted! Oh, dear!"

He looked at his gashed thumb. Tipsy told him in a few well chosen words that he had no business upsetting her without warning.

Corinna's eyes were green distress. "People never do believe my warning," she said, "and then Snow Leopard j.g. makes a lunch off them and—Can I tell you how sorry I am?"

"Occupational hazard if you like cats," Kintyre answered. "And I do. We might put on some stickum, just for appearances."

She regarded him closely. "I believe you mean that," she said. "Thank you." She led him to the bathroom. The route gave him a glimpse of her kitchen and a crammed shelf of herbs and spices.

"Instead of going out," he said as he repaired the damage, "I could probably get a better dinner here."

"Why, I hadn't prepared anything, but—"

"Nonsense. Maybe you'll give me a rain check. Let's go."

Tipsy assured him that she bore no hard feelings, and he stroked her with real pleasure. It occurred to him that there was something pathetic about Margery's little caged parakeet, set beside this beautiful killing engine.

"You're quite a scientist," he remarked, nodding at the books.

"Only as a spectator," said Corinna. "I would have liked to get a degree in math, but we hadn't the money and I was needed to help in the restaurant." Her explanation was unresentful.

He helped her into her coat and they went down to his car. "Where are we going?" she asked.

"I know a Dutch place near Russian Hill," he told her. "Ever been there? No? Good. Dutch cuisine is badly underrated. It's fully comparable to the French, in its own way."

She fell silent. He stole a look at the Egyptian profile; it was grave again.

"Forgive me if I'm tactless," he said.

"You aren't. You're very kind to come and—What good would we do Bruce, sitting around with our faces dragging on the floor?"

"I thought as much myself," he ventured. "But then, I was only a friend."

"Bruce never had a better one. I rather imagine you knew him more intimately than any of his kin. He grew away from us, toward something of his own. As was right, of course."

Kintyre had no reply.

"And then," she said in a matter-of-fact tone, "he was good. Not holy, but good. I don't think he will be too long in Purgatory."

Kintyre, for whom the soul was a metaphor, had to think over every aspect of her remark until he could understand that, quite simply, she believed it. That was not a consolation he wished to take from her.

"But damn," she whispered, "I'll miss him!"

They drove on in silence. At last she said, more awkwardly than the average modern woman: "I have to ask you about one thing. I saw a newspaper today. This girl he—he knew—"

"Yes," said Kintyre, focusing intently on the traffic. "I know her. They were living together. She's an altogether fine person who would have made him a wonderful wife. Bruce was very much in love with her and wanted to get married. She hesitated only because she—was afraid she might hurt him—she would have changed her mind soon. They were happy."

Corinna sighed. He could almost feel how she relaxed. "Thank you," she said. "I have a lot to thank you for, haven't I? We needn't say any more about this except—if the girl would like to see me, or have me visit her, I'd be more than glad to."

"I think so," said Kintyre. "In a few more days."

At once he damned himself for an idiot. He had spoken truth; but it gave Margery the chance to relate a few truths of her own, if she chose, and what might come of that?

They spoke little for the remainder of the drive. It was, somehow, a restful quietness.

It was broken when they stepped from the car. Another news rack faced them, with ARREST FATHER, SON FOR LOMBARDI MURDER staggering across the page.

Corinna drew a gasp. She snatched Kintyre's hand with fingers that were suddenly cold. "Santa Maria," she mumbled.

He steadied her. "Easy, there," he said.

"I knew it." Her voice came saw-toothed. "I knew it was them. What does it say?"

He bent over the page. "Not much more than that. Picked up this afternoon on suspicion, father and son. No details."

"It'll be out tomorrow. Everything. And then the trial."

"I thought you were all for this," he said. "You were convinced of their guilt and—"

"I wasn't thinking. I was only hurt, and tired. No, I don't want it to be this way." Slowly, she stiffened herself. "But so be it, then. Can I have a drink?"

"You can have more than that." He steered her along the sidewalk. She still moved a little unsurely. "You can have the news I mainly came to give you."

"What?"

"The Michaelises are not guilty."

A bar stood by their path. He led her inside, to a booth. The drab routine of checking Corinna's age seemed to help calm her. She asked for straight Irish whisky, he took beer.

Only then did she challenge him: "How do you know?"

"It's a long story," he said, "and frankly, I'm not certain how much of it you should hear. So suppose you begin by telling me why you think they did it."

"The police—"

"Uh-huh. They paid a little more attention to your ideas than you thought. They checked and found Gene had dropped out of sight over the weekend. He and his father refused to cooperate, doubtless being very surly about it, so now they're in the calaboose. But what could their motive have been in the first place?"

Her fingers twisted together. "Oh, all that business years ago, when their boat rammed Dad's."

"What more? It's something to do with you, isn't it?"

"Yes. Nothing disgraceful, I suppose. But ugly. A million people sniggering over this new revelation about our family—isn't there going to be end to it, ever?"

The drinks came. She tossed hers off recklessly and asked for another. While she waited, and he worked on his beer, she looked squarely across the table at him and said:

"Gene came back from the Navy last summer. He looked up Bruce in Berkeley. Bruce took him home to our parents for dinner; I happened to be there too. Gene gave me quite a play. He could be very charming. We had a number of dates." The color crept into her face, but she went on: "Yes, he did his best to seduce me. When that didn't work, he asked me to marry him. Every time we went out, it would end up with a proposal—and a wrestling match. I liked him, though. And he'd moved back to San Francisco from the Eastbay, taken a different job, just to be near me. Who wouldn't be flattered, and touched? But I finally had to lay down the law. It was a fight, physically, to make him behave. I caught a taxi home."

The waitress came back. Corinna picked up her second glass and sipped slowly. "He apologized the next day," she said, "but I told him I couldn't go out with him any more. He seemed to take it pretty well, said he would go back to Chicago—he'd spent a lot of time there once—but he asked for some kind of send-off. I—I spoke to Bruce. Gene had always been an admirer of Bruce. Odd, that big, husky, world-tramping fellow, admiring Bruce. We couldn't just drop him like that. We arranged a double date for a weekend early in December, a trip down to Carmel. I knew Bruce was in love, he couldn't hide that, but I asked him to take a friend of mine from the theater. It would make the atmosphere different. Safer, I thought."

Corinna stared into her drink. "We got a couple of hotel rooms down there," she said flatly. "We did a little drinking. Gene did more than a little. He made several open passes at me. I was afraid of a fight, but this girl and I got to bed at last. Back in their room, Gene's and Bruce's, Gene kept on drinking. He urged Bruce to come with him, into our room. Well, what would you expect? Bruce lost his temper and threw a punch at him. It couldn't have hurt—outside—but I wonder what it did to Gene, really. He started screaming about how we were all against him. I could hear him through the wall. We'd come down in his car. He said we could all find our own way home, he staggered out to his car and drove back along the highway—drunk."

Corinna brought her voice under control again. "That's all. We heard of the accident after we got home next day on the bus. We went to see him in the hospital as soon as we could. How he cursed us! Bruce was crying too, when we left."

"I know," said Kintyre. "I saw him a day or so later." And, briefly, he told her what Margery had done.

She seemed to thaw before his eyes. "If there could be such a thing as a blessed sin—"

"Now let's return to business," said Kintyre. "I want to get the nightmare off your back. Imprimis, how sorry are you for Gene? Actually?"

She hesitated. At last: "That's impossible to answer."

"He got what he asked for. It's pure luck the man in the other car wasn't killed."

"I suppose so." Hardness grew along her jawline. "And if he murdered my brother—how does the saying go? God may forgive him, but I never can."

"Good. However, secundus: He was not involved in Bruce's death."

"What makes you so certain?" she demanded, almost belligerently.

"Let me tell you what happened last night." Was it only last night?

He related it in a few words. She looked at him so strangely that he was puzzled, until it came to him that not many college professors enter waterfront tenements and throw people around.

"I hope you don't think I asked for the brawl," he finished. "I'm ashamed of it. But it gave me the proof I needed."

Her hand stole out, toward the plaster on his forehead. "Is that how you got hurt?" she asked softly.

"No." He continued hastily: "A strong possibility is that Bruce was killed by professionals. Imported murderers are likeliest, since the police will be seining all local toughs."

"Gene lived in Chicago," she murmured through tightened lips.

"Gene and his father are stonkering poor. Even if Gene has a murderer friend, such a job would not be done just as a favor."

"Then they could have done it themselves, father and son."

"Look, we had a minor scrap, the three of us. Those walls are like paper. Half the building heard it and came pounding on the door. Bruce could not have been—hurt, as he was—in that place. It would have to be somewhere else. Consider all the practical difficulties, finding an abandoned warehouse or whatever. Getting an automobile, for heaven's sake! Where would paupers like those two find the money to rent a car, even for a day?

"Oh, well, if we stretch our reasoning all out of shape, we can say they might have done all that. But one thing they could never have managed, and that was to capture Bruce in the first place. He would have tied them in bowknots."

"Bruce?" She was openly bewildered.

"Yes. Stop thinking of him as a mere bookworm. Bruce and I were going to pack into Kings Canyon, which is still pretty wild. And he was taking up judo, and doing quite well. A gun could have taken him prisoner, of course, but the Michaelises don't have a gun; they'd have gone for it last night if one were on the premises. So Bruce would have had to be slugged from behind. But there was no mark of a club on his body, no anesthetic—I have that from the police. Weaponless, neither Gene nor his father could have held Bruce for ten seconds. They're both strong, but they fall over themselves. I threw them with baby techniques."

"That's right," she said, "you do go in for judo, don't you? But Bruce said you were an expert."

"I only wear a brown belt so far. Bruce, of course, was a white. He could not have coped with one or two men who knew how to handle themselves—not necessarily judo men, just experienced fighters." Consider Terry Larkin. "However, he could certainly have thrown two unarmed Michaelises. Take my word for it. I know."

"Oh."

She studied her hands for a while.

"They'll be released in a few days at the outside," said Kintyre. "The most elementary procedures will show they're innocent. I can think of a dozen lines of proof myself. To be sure, you may be subjected to some publicity before that happens, but it will never get as far as a grand jury. Believe me."

"Thank you." When she smiled, he could see no other thing in all that dingy building. "I always seem to be thanking you."

"Which I find pleasant enough," he bowed.

"Why don't we go down to the station and explain it right now?" she asked hesitantly. "You're not afraid of being arrested for the fight, are you? That wasn't your fault."

"Oh, no. But my testimony and my reasoning aren't legally conclusive," he evaded.

"It would help a lot. It might get them out, tip the scales. I feel so sorry for them now. That poor old man!"

Kintyre looked straight into the green eyes. "Will you trust me a little bit?" he said. "Will you take my word that we can't do it immediately?"

Because the police would inquire further. Did I indeed hurt my arm and my head in that fracas? No, say the Michaelises. Where, then? I do not think their search would end short of Guido, your brother.

She bit her lip. "I hate to think of them locked up for something they haven't done."

"At the present time," he said, "my story would compromise someone else whom I also know to be innocent."

Like hell I do.

She sighed. "All right. That's good enough for me." And then, with the morning of her smile upon him again: "You've done enough for one day's knight errantry. Let's go eat."

13
The restaurant was small and quiet. Corinna and Kintyre had a corner table, where the light fell gently.

"By rights we should have a Genever aperitif," he said, "but I'm convinced Dutch gin is distilled from frogs. On the other hand, Dutch beer compares to Hof, Rothausbrau, or Kronenbourg."

"You've traveled a lot, haven't you?" she said. "I envy you that. Never got farther than the Sierras myself."

A little embarrassed—he had not been trying to play the cosmopolite—he fell silent while she glanced at her menu. "Will you order for me?" she asked finally. "You know your way around these dishes."

He made his selections, pleased by the compliment. When the beer came, in conical half-liter glasses, he raised his: "Prosit."

"Salute." She drank slowly. "Wonderful. But this may not be wise on top of two whiskies."

"It's all right if you go easy. Take the word of a hardened bowser." He searched out an inward weariness on the strong broad face. "You could use a little anesthesia."

"Well—" She set her glass down. "Bear with me. I promise not to blubber, but I may get sentimental. Or maybe even hilarious, I don't know. I've never lost anyone close to me before now."

"I understand," said Kintyre.

"And please help me steer clear of myself," she added. "I would like to talk about Bruce, and otherwise about wholly neutral things." She managed a smile. "I've been meaning to ask you something. You're the Machiavelli specialist. Our theater did Mandragola last year. Tell me, how could the same man write that and Il Principe?"

"Actually," said Kintyre, "I would be surprised if the author of The Prince—or, rather, the Discourses on Livy, since The Prince is really just a pamphlet—I'd be surprised if he had not done sheer amusement equally well. One of the more damnable heresies of this era is its notion that a man can only be good at one thing. That versatility is not the inborn human norm."

"I've often thought the same," she said. "I suppose you know Bruce changed his major to history because of you. He took one of your classes as a freshman. Now I see why."

"Well," he stalled, and hoisted his beer.

She shifted the conversation with a tact he appreciated: "But how did you happen to get interested in it, in the Italian Renaissance yet, with a name like yours?"

"I served time in one of those private schools back East," he said. "The Romance languages master got me enthusiastic."

He paused, then continued slowly: "I entered Harvard, but Pearl Harbor happened in my sophomore year. I was in the Navy the whole war, the Pacific; fell in love with the Bay Area on my shore leaves, which is why I came here to live afterward. But during the war I had a lot of time to read and try to think where this world was going. To the wolves, I decided—like Machiavelli's world—I suppose that's why I feel so close to him. He was also studying the problem of how the decent man can survive. He spoke the truth as he saw it, because he didn't think that civilization should be encumbered with nice-nellyisms that the barbarians had already discarded. Wherefore he became the original Old Nick, and the very people—us, the free people, whom he could warn—won't listen, because we think he speaks for the enemy!"

He braked. "Sorry. I didn't mean to orate at you."

"I wish more men had convictions," she said. "Even when I don't agree. Everybody respects everybody else's sensibilities so much these days, there's nothing left to talk about but football scores."

"You're very kind," he said. "Ah, here come the appetizers. Pay special attention to the characteristically Dutch delicacy, Russian eggs, but don't ask me how they came by that name."

Later, after much talk, some of it with enough laughter to tell him she was a merry soul in better days:

A ruby spark lay in their glasses of Cherry Heering. "This isn't Dutch either," said Kintyre. "However."

"Do you know," she said, "I begin to understand the old idea of a wake. Getting the clan together and having one fine brawling celebration. It's more an act of love, really, than drawing the parlor curtains and talking in hushed voices."

"That's the Latin who speaks," he said. "We Protestant races are cursed with the tradition that misery is a virtue."

"But you, you Bostonian Scot or whatever you are—I hear a trace of accent—you approve."

"I left Boston for the Pacific at the arthritic age of nine."

"What was the reason for that?"

"My father was a marine architect. He was laid off in, uh, 1930. Being an imaginative man, he spent his savings on a schooner, hired a Mexican crew, and we all lit out for the South Seas. For seven years we lived on that schooner."

"Bruce told me you were a sailor." Her eyes were very bright upon him. "But how did you make it pay?"

"Miscellaneously. Sometimes we carried cargo and passengers between islands. The passengers were usually Kanakas, and those who didn't have money would pay us in food and hospitality when we got where we were going. Father wasn't after riches anyway. His main enterprise was to gather and prepare marine specimens, for museums and colleges and so on. Toward the end, he was making a name for himself. Well, we never saw much cash money, but we never needed a lot either."

Kintyre held his glass to the light, tossed it off and followed it with a scalding sip of coffee. Why was he speaking of this? He had barely mentioned his youth to anyone else, except Trig, who was the friend of a dozen years. Trig had led him into the dojo, hoping that its discipline of mind as well as body would strangle the horror. But Corinna had the story out of him in a matter of hours, not even knowing what she did.

He had taken her for Morna last night.

"What happened?" she asked. Her tone said that he needn't answer unless he wanted to.

"A typhoon and a lee shore," he said. "I was the only survivor."

He took out a cigarette. She folded her hands and waited, in case he should want to say more.

"That was in the Gilbert Islands," he continued after the smoke was curling down his tongue. "The British authorities shipped me home. The guardianship was wished onto a cousin of my mother's. So I went to the boarding school I spoke of, and summers I worked at a seaside resort. Don't feel sorry for me, it was quite a good life."

"But a lonely one," she said.

He grinned with a single corner of his mouth. "'He travels the fastest who travels alone.'"

"I understand a great deal now." She held her cup so lightly that he grew aware he was in danger of breaking his. Tendon by tendon, he eased his fingers. "Yes," she said after a moment. "Bruce was always puzzled by you. As I imagine most people are. You don't seem to belong anywhere, to anything or anyone. And yet you do. You belong to a world that foundered in the ocean."

It jarred him. Not given to self-analysis, he had imagined he lived a logical, well adapted round of days.

"Sometime you'll build it again," she said. "Oh, not the physical ship, you've more important things on hand, but a personal world."

And again it was a blow, to be shown himself as alien as a castaway from Mars.

"Please," he said, more roughly than he had intended. "I don't find my personality the most interesting object on earth."

She nodded, as if to herself. The long hair swept her flat high-boned cheeks. "Of course. You wouldn't."

"Perhaps I'd better take you home now," he said, without noticeable enthusiasm. "Are you working tomorrow?"

"Only if I feel like it, my boss told me. I'd planned to, but—Are you in any hurry?"

"Contrariwise." I don't think I would sleep much.

"Then could we go somewhere and talk? I'd like to ask you some things."

"I'd love to be asked. I know a place."

It was small, dark, and masculine, undegraded by jukebox or television. Kintyre led Corinna into a booth at the rear.

"They serve steam beer," he said. "The only really good beer made in this country."

"Oof! I couldn't. Another Irish, if I may. I promise to go slow." Her tone was not as light as the words.

Nonetheless, he needed a little while to sense the trouble in her.

After much time she met his eyes, obviously forcing his own. "Dr. Kintyre," she began.

He was about to ask her to use his given name; and then he thought how little intimacy could be achieved in this American cult of first-name familiarity with all the universe. "Yes?" he said.

"I would—I would have thanked you for a wonderful time, which helped me more than you know. And then I would have gone home. But—"

He waited.

"I don't know how to say it," she stumbled. "I knew you were Bruce's—Bruce's brother, the one he should have had. But only tonight could I feel it." She searched for a phrase. Finally: "I don't believe I could hurt myself by being serious with you."

"I hope not," he said, as grave as she. "I can't promise it."

"Why did you go to the Michaelises last night?"

"I'm not quite sure."

"You want to discover who killed Bruce? Isn't that it?"

"I am not a self-appointed detective. The police can do that job infinitely better than I. But I have been thinking."

"What do you think?" she persisted.

"I certainly wouldn't go accusing someone who—"

"Can you realize what Bruce meant to me?" She asked it quietly, as a meaningful request for truth. "We were more than siblings. We were friends, all our lives, in a way they haven't made words for."

"I do know," he said, and he would have told it to few other creatures that lived. "I had a younger sister myself."

"Even after he left home—can you imagine the way he continued to watch over me? How often he stepped in and used a word or two to straighten out a lonesome, confused, unhappy girl whom nobody else liked; how he steered me toward the kind of people I can feel at home with; how he healed the breach with my parents, when I had to get away and they didn't understand; how he got me out of a wretched business office and into the museum, where I can like what I'm doing and believe it has some value. You knew Bruce, did you know that side of him?"

"No," said Kintyre. "He wouldn't have talked about it. Still, yes, I can imagine."

"And he was lured somewhere, and tortured, and murdered," she said. The lacquered fingernails stood white where she caught the table edge.

Kintyre didn't touch her himself, but he held out his hand. She gripped it for a while. Her face was lowered. When she let go and looked up again, he saw tears.

"I'm sorry," she gulped. "I promised not to bawl, and then—"

Kintyre let her have it out. It didn't take long, nor was it noisy.

She said at last, in a wire-thin voice: "Why was it done? Who would do it, to him of all people in the world?"

"I don't know," said Kintyre. "I just don't know."

"But you can guess, can't you? You know everyone concerned. That writer he was having the fight with. That businessman who owns the thesis manuscript. Gene Michaelis. You could be wrong! Even his girl, God help me for saying it. Who?"

"Why must you know?" he asked.

"Why?" It took her aback. "To know! To understand—"

"Do you want to be reassured the murderer won't strike at you next? I hardly think you need fear that."

"Of course not!" she flared. "I want to know so the world can make some sense again."

"That's too metaphysical to be true," he said.

Briefly, she shivered with tension. Then, leaning back, she picked up her whisky glass and sipped of it and asked coldly:

"Where did you go last night after you left the Michaelis place?"

"Home," he said.

"Guido was badly shaken today. He hadn't slept at all, I could see that in the morning. He stayed around the apartment like a hurt animal. I know him, he's terrified." Corinna spat as if at an enemy: "What did you do to him?"

"Nothing!" said Kintyre.

Her lip caught her teeth.

"I didn't think of it till just now," she breathed. "But it all fits. You do know something. In God's name, tell me!"

He said, with an overpowering compassion: "I see. You're afraid Guido is involved."

"Yes," she said dully.

"Why should he be?"

"Oh—I don't know—jealousy? Who can tell? Guido always seemed like the wild, reckless one and Bruce a mama's boy. Yet it was Bruce who left home and Guido never has."

"Let's have no half-digested psychological theory," he said, purposely astringent. "Stick to facts. What leads you to suspect your brother is involved?"

"I might as well tell you," she sighed. "Last week he was dropping all kinds of dark hints about a big job which would take him out of town over the weekend. He's like that, has to sound important, mostly there's no harm in it. But he came back Monday evening with a good deal of money. I knew he was broke before. He had even been forced to sell his car. He came in loaded with expensive presents for all of us, and had a fat roll in his wallet. Of course, when we told him about Bruce, that more or less made us forget it. But then today, how frightened he was—

"What happened last night?"

Kintyre took out a cigarette. "Excuse me while I think," he said. He made a ceremony of lighting it.

"Guido is in trouble," he admitted. "I don't know how closely related to the murder it is."

"Don't misunderstand me." Her face could have been modeled in chalk. "I never thought Guido would—would dream of—no! But he could have been drawn into something. And what would the police think?"

"Uh-huh. The same notion occurred to me."

"What happened, then?"

He told her.

"Oh, no." Her eyes closed.

"You see my dilemma," he said wearily. "I'll protect Guido if my conscience will let me, even though it's already led me into lawbreaking. But I don't know, I can't tell—"

She opened her eyes again. They blazed.

"Thank You," she said, not to Kintyre.

His scalp crawled. "What are you thinking of?"

"I know Guido," she answered. "I can get the truth out of him."

"You can try."

She stood up. "I'll take a cab," she said.

"What?" He rose himself. "You're not going there now?"

"When else? I'm sorry, it's a shabby way to treat you, but do you think something like this can wait?"

"A murderer is hanging around that place," he said. "You can see Guido tomorrow at your parents', but tonight I won't have it."

She grinned. There was even a little humor in the expression. "What do you plan to do?"

"Call the police!" he rapped.

She said like a sword: "By the time you've explained all the ins and outs to them, I'll have taken him elsewhere. And you needn't bother speaking to either of us again."

He took her by the wrist. "Let me go," she said, almost casually.

"Wait a second." Again he knew the night feeling, that he must go, and that that would happen which another force than he had willed. But somehow, crazily, this time he was glad of it.

"Just wait for me," he finished.

14
The doorkeeper-bouncer was the first obstacle. Kintyre wished he had worn a hat. Nothing disguised him except a gray suit; the square of bandage at his hairline felt like a searchlight.

"Follow my lead," whispered Corinna as they went down the stairs.

It was dark in the doorway, and narrow. She contrived to get herself squeezed between Kintyre and the other man; and as she slithered by she threw him such a look that he would have let a rhinoceros enter unnoticed beside her.

The Alley Cat was full tonight. Mostly the cool crowd, Kintyre judged, drawn by the rumors of last night's affair. He could not help himself, but whispered to Corinna: "Where in the hell did you learn to put five thousand volts of raw sex into three motions and one sidelong glance?"

"Theater." Even at this moment, when she saw through a harsh blue haze her brother who might be a murderer singing a dirty ballad, she could have been a female Puck. "Also, it helps to live with a cat."

They threaded their way along the wall until they found a table in shadow. "We can see him at the intermission," he proposed. She nodded. The waitress who lit their candle—Kintyre snuffed it again when she had left—and brought them a demi of burgundy, paid them no special attention. Well, it was long established that an excited eyewitness has no value. Those who saw the fight had not really seen the fighters.

Corinna fell silent, resting her cheek on one fist. She didn't drink at all. Kintyre tried to read the way she was looking at Guido, but understood only a troubled tenderness.

"Mind if I join you?"

Kintyre looked up, startled, into Trygve Yamamura's flat face. "Oh," he said stupidly. "Sit down. Miss Lombardi, this is—" He explained in detail.

"I'm glad to know you," she said. Her eyes added: Maybe. It will depend on what comes next. Guido's guitar twanged and capered. His voice overrode the room, as full of satyr laughter as if it had never known anything else. "With his whack-fol-de-diddle-di-day—"

"Were we that conspicuous coming in?" whispered Kintyre.

"Lay off the stage hiss," Yamamura told him. "A low speaking voice draws less attention. No, you pulled it off okay. It was only that I was making it my business to see everyone who comes in. Still am." His eyes remained in motion as he sat holding his beer; the rest of him was nearly limp, taking its ease until a muscle should be needed.

"Been here long?" asked Kintyre.

"Couple hours, since the act went on," said Yamamura. "I tailed Guido from his place. Before then, though, I assumed he wouldn't leave his four safe walls, so I found plenty to do elsewhere."

Corinna exclaimed: "You learned something?"

"Uh-huh. I came right over this morning after Bob saw me. No grass grows where I have been, I mean no grass grows under my feet." Yamamura took a pipe from his maroon sports jacket. "The best way to get a line on your friend Larkin seemed to be to check Guido's recent movements. I started at the other end—his call on Clayton, a week ago last Monday. You know, when he and Bruce went around to see about a job. Clayton himself isn't in the City today, but I went to that swank apartment hotel he inhabits and jollied the staff."

Having filled his pipe, he took his time lighting it. "I gather Clayton gave Guido and Bruce a rather long interview," he went on. "Or, rather, Bruce. Guido left about an hour before his brother did."

"He never mentioned that!" said Corinna.

"Why should he?" countered Yamamura. "Not good for his pride, is it? But what did Bruce and Clayton find to talk about?"

"And how much of it did Guido hear?" murmured Kintyre.

Corinna flushed. "Please don't," she said in a hard voice.

"I'm sorry," he answered, torn. "But if Bruce had to tell Clayton something important, even worth killing about—they'd shoo Guido out first. But Guido might have gotten enough hints to make some deductions and—No, wait, let me finish! Maybe Guido blabbed to someone else, not realizing himself what it signified."

She gave him a shaky little smile. "Thanks for trying," she said.

"Ah, this is probably of no significance at all," said Yamamura. "Bruce could just as well have been giving Clayton the latest information about the mildew on page 77 of that book." He attempted a smoke ring and failed. "Or could he? Depends on how you interpret this tidbit: Clayton telephoned Genoa, Italy, that same night."

"Who did he call?" asked Kintyre.

"The switchboard girl doesn't remember. All she heard was a lot of Italian: they started gabbling right away, before she could take herself out of the circuit. Clayton stayed home for several hours next day. The Italian called again. Now none of this would be worth retailing, I guess, except for one more oddity about Mr. Clayton. He had the bellhop bring him several dollars in change. Then he went out and was gone for some hours."

Corinna raised her thick dark brows in puzzlement. Kintyre nodded. "Yes. Long-distance, though not transatlantic, calls from a public booth," he said. "No chance of being eavesdropped on."

"It may not mean a damn relevant thing," said Yamamura. "The most legitimate businesses have their secrets. But I'll admit to being curious. Did Bruce steer him onto something big? And did a business rival then strike at Bruce? That doesn't sound likely. Maybe Clayton himself—no, hardly that. In my line of work I'd have heard it if he weren't straight, or if he associated with thugs."

Kintyre jammed his fists into knots. An intake of air hissed between his teeth.

"What is it?" Corinna's alarm seemed to come from far away.

"Nothing. Or possibly something. Never mind. Go on, Trig."

Only part of him heard the detective continue. The rest said through thunder: One more suspect. I had been sure Clayton, of all people, must be innocent. For the Federal government would have assured itself he knows no assassins—Trig, perhaps more reliably, tells me the same—and he could not have found any on short notice, and it is impossible he could have done the crime personally.

But Guido might have such connections!

Did Clayton see Guido again?

"Then I went around and chivvied the cops," said Yamamura. "They were just hauling in the Michaelis family, and hadn't much time for any other ideas. However, they are going to check house rentals over the weekend. You see, what was done—I'm sorry, Miss Lombardi—the deed would require an isolated spot. An entire house, at least. For the noise."

"Has anything come of that?" asked Corinna with a great steadiness.

"Not yet. These things take time. Well, then I had some supper and came here. Wasn't open yet, but they were making ready. Someone will have to meet my expense account, twenty-five good dollars to grease my way in and learn something."

"I can," said Corinna.

"Not you, Miss Lombardi. Most especially not you." Yamamura fumbled with his pipe; he was all at once an unhappy man. "Must I say it?"

Her eyes closed again, a flicker of aloneness. Then: "Please. It's better now, isn't it, than later from someone else?"

"A couple of strangers were in here last Thursday night. They introduced themselves to Guido, stood him drinks, talked at length. All this was noticed by the bartender, without any special interest, simply because it was a slack midweek night. He didn't hear what was said. After closing time, Guido went out with them.

"The description of one of those birds answers moderately well to Bob's description of Larkin."

Corinna shook herself, as if something rode her neck. "Is that all?" she asked.

"Yes."

"It could be worse," she said. "We already know he knows Larkin."

"What did the other man look like?" asked Kintyre.

"Smallish fellow, sandy-haired, long nose. And I'm surprised the barkeep could tell me that much. Look how you've come right back in here tonight, a stranger, after tearing the joint up."

Guido finished. Applause crackled, abnormally loud for a place like this: did they clap the knife which had been drawn? wondered Kintyre.

Corinna got up and made her way toward the platform. Guido gaped at her. "I like that girl," said Yamamura. "Do we have to go on with this business?"

"If we don't, she will alone," Kintyre told him.

Corinna and Guido held a muted argument. The fear was bulging his eyes. Finally he collapsed, somehow, and went out through the rear door. Corinna followed.

"Here we go," said Yamamura. "No, you ape, don't blow your nose! Oldest trick in the book, and you can bet there's at least one plainclothesman here tonight."

He sauntered affably between the tables. Kintyre came behind, his shoulders aching with tension. The bartender, the man who could actually notice things, regarded him speculatively as he passed by. A small surf of conversation lapped at his feet, he had to choke down the idiotic belief that it was all about him.

Then they were in the back room. Kintyre recognized the alley door he had used previously. Almost hidden by stacked beer cases, a stair led upward. At its top they found a dusty room with an iron cot, a couple of chairs, and an old vanity table. A naked electric bulb glared from the ceiling. Dressing room, Kintyre supposed.

Guido sat on the bedstead. He held a cigarette to his lips and drew on it as if it kept him alive. Corinna stood before him. The overhead light made her hair into a helmet and her face into a mask. Shadows lay huge in the corners.

Guido didn't look up. "I'll see you later," he mumbled. "I swear it. But not here. For Chrissake, we can all be killed here."

"Then why did you come tonight?" asked Yamamura.

"God! I was afraid not to."

"Did you see anyone dangerous in the audience?"

"I can't tell." His forehead glistened under the tangled hair. "There's a baby spot on me when I sing. I can't see past the first couple tables."

Corinna said: "Mr. Yamamura is a private detective. I understand he's even better at judo than Dr. Kintyre, which you should know is saying quite a lot."

"And when they go home?" He lifted a skull face. "What happens to me then?"

Yamamura replied: "Your only real safety will come when those people you are afraid of have been settled with. Do you want to go the rest of your life being afraid?"

"You can't settle with them," whispered Guido. "I mean, it's not just Larkin with his switchblades. O'Hearn carries a gun, and he's a three-time loser already, do you understand what that means? I've seen his gun!"

"Is there anyone else?" asked Kintyre.

"I don't know. You expect me to tell you if I do? I'll get myself killed!"

Corinna waved Kintyre and Yamamura back. She sat down beside Guido and took his free hand. "Bruce got himself killed too," she said in her gentlest tone.

"Oh, yes, yes, yes! Leave me alone!"

"He was tied down somewhere and tortured," she said, not raising her voice. "They burned him. The marks were all over his body, even after they finished hacking it up. I know that much, no more. Nobody would tell me more, and I didn't want to ask. But he must have been glad when they finally cut his throat."

Guido tried to rise. She pulled him back, without using much strength. "Jesus!" he screamed.

"Why did you help them?" she asked.

"I didn't! It's got nothing to do with—I didn't!"

She stood up again and looked down upon him. "Why did you do it?" she said as calmly. "How had he hurt you, that you had to let him be burned and twisted and killed?"

"No! Not me! I don't know!" His mouth was stretched into a gash; a tongue like dry wood bobbed within it.

She slapped him. It could not have been hard, but he fell back onto the bed and clawed at the mattress.

"Good-by," she said, and walked from him.

Kintyre looked at her and knew why the Furies had been women. His heart was a cold lump.

Corinna waited in a corner, her hands writhing together. Guido tried, horribly, to weep, and could not.

Then at last he rolled over on his back, blinked at the light, and said in a high childish voice: "I'll tell you what happened. I'll tell you so you can see it wasn't me, wasn't anything to do with Bruce, it just happened to happen the same weekend, and then maybe if you get out and leave me alone they won't kill me.

"All I did was this. These cats from Chicago came around last week and said they were after some of the pod and could I get it, it was worth five hundred bucks to them plus expenses. Not horse, now, I don't have anything to do with horse. Just marijuana, it never hurt anybody, you don't get hooked, you don't go nuts, hell, I mean you even have to will yourself to keep the jag up and it's only in your head, man, you don't do nothing to nobody else, dig?"

"Guido," said Corinna warningly.

He snapped after air. Presently he continued: "So I told them I didn't handle it myself but I knew some who did. But they didn't dig that, said they didn't want nothing to do with any local pushers, they didn't even want it from any near town. Well, it seemed way out to me, but five hundred plus expenses for finding a small packet wasn't to be turned down, so I asked around and got the name of a dealer in Tijuana, and when I saw them the next day they said that would do. So I rented a car and drove down Saturday. I was supposed to meet Larkin here again Monday night and give him the packet and get the rest of my money—they paid two-fifty in advance. I came back to town late Monday. When I hit my pad I heard about Bruce and the old lady was crying all over me, so I called the place here and talked with Larkin, could he meet me Tuesday night instead. So he said all right, only the professor was here when he arrived. I haven't seen Larkin or O'Hearn since, and what're they thinking I said?"

Kintyre didn't look at Corinna, he didn't believe it would be decent for a minute or two. He asked Guido: "What other jobs did you do for these men? Rent a house for them?"

"No—nothing. I turned the car back to the rental agency on Monday, that's all. They'd advanced some of my expenses. They still owe me—"

"You're not likely to collect," said Yamamura. He nodded to Kintyre. "I see what you're driving at. They missed a bet, not having him rent the scene of the crime too. And of course it was a mistake to dump the body across the Bay: that expedited the investigation, rather than slowing it up as intended. But then, they were strangers to this locality. And there's not much long-range difference, is there?"

"What do you mean?" asked Guido lifelessly.

"I mean you've been played for an all-time sucker," said Kintyre. "It's pure luck—the Michaelises just happened to become Patsy Number One—that you haven't been arrested on suspicion of murder. So far."

He heard Corinna gasp. Guido seemed too drained to understand.

"Another thing," said Kintyre. "What's between you and Gerald Clayton?"

"Clayton?" The empty eyes blinked from the bed. "Clayton. Oh, him. Nothing."

"Are you certain?"

"We talked for a while, up at his pad. Bruce took me there. So finally he gave me the polite brush-off and I came on over here to do my show. Bruce stayed."

"That's all? You're sure?"

"For a long time, anyway. I met him once before—months and months ago—just social like—" Guido's tones dribbled to silence.

Kintyre rubbed his chin. "That seems to let Clayton off," he said. "If, to be sure, our friend here is telling the truth."

"He is," said Corinna. Turning, Kintyre saw her inhumanly composed. "I know him. He can't be lying now."

"I wish I could be that certain," said Kintyre. "The whole thing makes so little sense that—Though Judas, I feel I could almost grasp the answer, but no."

Yamamura asked Guido: "Where is this dope you brought?"

"It's not dope," said the figure on the cot: a tired, automatic protest. "It's only pod."

"Never mind that. If you don't like the law, write your Congressman. Where's the dope?"

"They'll kill me if—"

"What use is your life to you right now?" asked Yamamura scornfully.

It had not seemed possible Guido could shrink further into himself. "That dressing table over there," he whimpered.

Yamamura opened the drawer, flipped out a small parcel, and tore a corner. "Uh-huh," he said.

"Well?" said Kintyre.

"Well, by rights we should turn this and the kid in. It could mean a stretch in a Federal prison, since he crossed a border. It could even mean a loss of citizenship, he being naturalized. Dope is a hysterical issue."

Corinna did not speak.

Yamamura continued, in an almost idle tone: "However, it's true enough that this isn't a really vicious drug. I could heave it into the nearest garbage can and there'd be an end of the matter. If you think he's had a little sense beaten into him."

Kintyre said: "That's my guess, Trig." Yamamura slipped the package into a coat pocket. Corinna shuddered, her fingers closed about Kintyre's.

Yamamura knocked the dottle from his pipe, which had gone cold between his teeth, and said, "Let's assume for now that he is telling the truth. Then what have we got?"

"A couple of murderers still hanging around," said Kintyre. "Why? Surely not to collect their hashish. That was just a gimmick to make Guido, their decoy, leave town, and make it damn near impossible for him to explain why. Whether or not a murder charge could have been made to stick, it would certainly confuse the issue long enough for this job to be finished, for the killers to go safely home again, and for the one who hired them to cover his tracks completely."

"You imply their job is not yet finished," said Yamamura.

"I sure do. There's no other sane reason for them to stay around, risking detection and arrest. Only—who's next?"

"Guido?" It was Corinna who asked it, firmly.

"I doubt that, at least as far as the original plan went. Who wants a dead red herring? Of course, now they may indeed go for him, afraid of what he has spilled. I think we'd better take him across the bay."

Yamamura nodded. "Let's get moving," he said. "Up there, lad." He stepped to the cot, took Guido under the arms and hauled him erect. "We can go out the back door."

Guido shambled, leaning heavily on the detective. Kintyre and Corinna followed. "He must be telling the truth," she said. "I know him! And that package—"

"Does tend to bear out his yarn," said Kintyre. "I want to believe in his essential innocence myself. The trouble is, if his story is true, then who hired the killers?"

"That Mr. Clayton?"

"Not if Guido has given us a full and fair account. I've explained to you that the Michaelises are out. Who's left?"

"I've heard of a writer. Owens, is that his name?"

"I don't know. I plain don't. And yet I'm nagged by a feeling that I already have the answer—and I can't name it! Things have been happening too fast." Kintyre scowled. "And until we can identify the one who hired the killers—the real murderer; the others are only a deodand—he's free to murder someone else."

They had come down the stairs now, slowly, and stepped into the alley behind the building. Windowless brick walls closed three sides: it was a cul-de-sac thick with shadows, opening on a wanly lit trafficless street of hooded shops.

The man by the alley entrance stepped a little closer. There was just light enough to show that he was not tall, that he had sloping shoulders, and that he carried an automatic pistol. He stopped three yards from the door, too far off for a leap.

"Hold it," he said.

15
Yamamura and Guido had come out first. Guido's legs seemed to go fluid; only the arm around his waist held him up.

"Jimmy," he bleated.

Kintyre's hand swung backward in an arc, shoving Corinna behind him. He said aloud—very loudly, "What the devil do you want?"

"Quiet, there," said the man called Jimmy. "This thing has a silencer on it." He waved the gun. "I want to see Lombardi."

"It isn't nothing, Jimmy," chattered Guido. "Before God, Jimmy, they're just friends of mine!"

"Yeh. You can tell us all about it. The rest of you stand back against the door. Come on, Guido. I got a car waiting."

Yamamura eased his burden to the ground. Guido huddled on hands and knees, retching. "He'll never make it," said the detective. "He's scared spitless."

"I just want to talk with him," said Jimmy. "I was supposed to see him here tonight, only they said he'd gone upstairs. I figured if it was just for a nap or something, he'd be down again to finish his act and I'd catch him later. Only if he wanted to skip out this way instead, it would be soon and he might not come back. I didn't want to miss him, so I figured I'd wait here a while."

It was not meant as an explanation. It was an indictment, nailed word by word on the man who tried to stand up.

"Well," said Yamamura, "let me help him."

Jimmy laughed under his hat. "I'm not that simple-minded. Stay put." With shrillness: "Come on, Guido. Or do you want to get drilled right here and now?"

Guido began to drag himself forward, as if a bullet had already smashed his spine. The sound of it, and of his breath going in and out an open mouth, and the nearby clamor of automobiles filled with meek taxpayers, was all that Kintyre could hear.

He wondered if he could let Guido be taken from him, by the same instrument which had taken Bruce, and call himself male. Two or three jumps should reach Jimmy. But Jimmy was no amateur, he wouldn't miss if he shot. But there were many cases on record of men being hit once, twice, being filled with lead, and still coming on. But Guido wasn't worth anybody's time. But Guido was brother to Bruce and Corinna, therefore worth a great deal of time. But a possible forty years?

But a deeper shadow filled the open end of the brick gut. It ran forward in total silence, light touched its glassy uplifted club and its flowing hair.

As the bottle came down on Jimmy's head, Kintyre started to move. Yamamura beat him to it, arriving a second after Jimmy lurched forward from the impact on his skull. The sound had been a shattering; Kintyre heard the tinkles that followed the blow. Yamamura knocked the gun from Jimmy's hand with an edge-on palm, seized his lapel, and applied a scissor strangle.

Jimmy fell, as if the bones had been sucked from him. Corinna swayed over his form, still holding the broken beer bottle. Almost, she fell too. Kintyre caught her.

She held him closely, shuddering. It was not necessary, he thought beneath his own pulse. She fought herself, and grew worn down thereby. Her physical output had been negligible. Clearly she had slipped back through the door, unobserved (that was the chance she took, but chance had a way of favoring those who acted boldly). Picking up an empty bottle on the way, tucking it inconspicuously under an arm, she had gone out past the bar, out the main door (doubtless noticed, maybe wondered about, but not stopped and soon forgotten) and around the building. Then she took off her shoes and ran up behind Jimmy and hit him.

That was all. There was no reason to grow exhausted. But God damn all smug judokas, hadn't she earned the right?

"You clopped him a good one," said Yamamura, squatting to look. "It's as well he had a hat on. A cut scalp could get very messy. Congratulations."

"Did you say there was a cop in the bar?" asked Kintyre.

"Beyond doubt," said Yamamura. "Or we can phone, of course. Only I'm carrying a parcel of smoke, and the neighborhood will be searched quite thoroughly if our friend here mentions it." He sat on his heels, chin in hand, for what seemed like a long time. Jimmy moaned, but did not stir.

"Bob," asked Yamamura finally, "do you know anyone living on this side who's mixed up in the affair?"

"Just Guido, if we rule out the Michaelises."

"So the big chief—and his next victim—are probably in the Eastbay. If another murder is to be forestalled, I wonder if we ought to spend time here chatting with a lot of well intentioned policemen who will first have to be convinced the Michaelises are innocent and this wasn't a simple stick-up. Especially when the papers will tell the big chief exactly what's happened. Or, even if they can be made to keep quiet, Jimmy will fail to report in; the gang will try to check for him in the San Francisco pokey, first of all; so we could do some trail-covering of our own."

"You mean to take this character to Berkeley, then? Isn't that pretty irregular? You don't want to jeopardize your license."

"It's as irregular as a German verb, and the police are going to be annoyed. But I do think we can flange up enough excuses to get by with it. Of course, the Berkeley force will call up the San Francisco force immediately, but that'll go on a higher level, chief to chief I imagine; we can explain the need for secrecy, as much secrecy as the law allows, and—Hell, Bob, let's stop mincing words. What we need is time to construct a story that'll cover Guido. And you."

Kintyre felt how the stone-rigid body he held began to come alive again. "Blessings," he murmured.

"We'll go to your place first, and then decide what's next."

"Can you finagle Jimmy across the bridge?"

"Him and Guido both," grinned Yamamura. "Which will leave you a clear field when you take the lady home."

"I'm coming," said Corinna. She pulled herself away from Kintyre, gently.

"You are not," he answered. Seeing in the dirty gray half-light how her face grew mutinous, he went on: "There are enough complications already. What could you do over there, except be one more element we have to explain away—or one more target for the gang? At present, only Jimmy knows you have any concern with this business, and he'll get no chance to talk of it."

She thought on his words for a little. Then: "Yes. You're right. But don't drive me all the way. A taxi will—"

"Shut up!" he laughed, shakily, and took her arm.

They had to wait, guarding a half-conscious prisoner, while Yamamura went after his car. Guido sat on the pavement, knees drawn up under his chin. After a while he took out a cigarette and lit it.

Corinna leaned over him. "Go with them," she said. "They're the only real friends you've got."

"Besides you, sis," he muttered. Then, barking a sort of laugh: "Next week, East Lynne."

She sighed, like an old woman, and stood back again.

Yamamura returned and bound Jimmy's wrists with Jimmy's tie. He and Kintyre frogmarched their captive to the Volkswagen and put him in back on the floor. Yamamura secured his ankles with his belt. "Toss me your house key, Bob, I'll see you there. Hop in, Guido. Cheerio."

Kintyre and Corinna walked hand in hand back toward his own car. They stopped to pick up her shoes. "I'm afraid you ruined your stockings," he said inanely.

"You don't have to talk," she said. "I don't need it."

He was grateful for that. The silence in which they drove home (she did not lean against him, but she sat close by) was somehow like—memory groped—like Bruce's music which Margery had played for him a few centuries ago. He wondered if she had heard it yet.

"I hope you'll be able to sleep," he said at her door.

"Oh, yes, I think so." She considered him and asked gravely: "Why are you doing this for us?"

"I can't stop now," he said. "I'm in up to the eyebrows."

"But why did you begin? Not for Bruce's sake, surely. He wouldn't have cared about being avenged."

"Which is what the police are for, anyway. I don't like this evading them that we've been forced into."

"Well?" she continued.

"Why do you want to know?" he dodged.

Her head drooped. "I suppose it isn't any of my business. I'm sorry."

It hammered within him to tell her: that he had been escaping a demon, that she had worn its shape for a single moment, and that now he wanted to give peace to her. But there had been too many locks in him, for too many years.

He took her hand. "Later," he said, wondering if he meant it. "This is no time for a long, involved story."

"I'll stay home tomorrow," she said. "Will you call me as soon as—anything happens? The first minute you're able to?"

"Of course."

She smiled then, reached up and ran her palm along his cheek. "Arrivederci," she said. The door closed behind her.

It was so much more than he had awaited, that he never remembered going down the stairs. He was driving over the bridge before the complete bleakness of his purpose returned.

The hour was not yet midnight, but Berkeley was quiet. Kintyre parked behind Yamamura's Volks and walked around the empty house to his cottage. The detective let him in.

"Where are our friends?" asked Kintyre.

"Guido is in your bed, snoring," said Yamamura. "As clear a case of nervous exhaustion as I ever saw. By the way, Jimmy's name is O'Hearn; I went through his billfold. I borrowed some of that rope you've been making grommets with and stashed him in the john."

He had stripped off his jacket, to show a noisy aloha shirt; his pipe strove to be Vesuvius. "Are you very tired?" he asked.

"No. Keyed up, in fact."

"Have a drink. Apropos vices, the evidence against Guido is in the Bay. I assumed we're not going to hand him over to the law."

"Not for one bit of foolishness," said Kintyre. "I doubt if he'll ever touch dope running again. He's gotten a hefty scare."

"Jimmy will tattle, though."

"Our word against his. We're somewhat more respectable."

"You and Machiavelli! But, yeh. A check with the Chicago police—he's from there, all right—would doubtless show he's got a record as long as King Kong's arm. A pro killer doesn't come out of nowhere; he starts with petty stuff and works his way up." Yamamura shook his head. "And on the other hand, a lot of good men are doing time for one slip regretted the moment it was over. Makes me wonder about our whole concept of penology. That's why I'll help you cover for Guido."

Kintyre took down his bottle of Scotch and raised brows at Yamamura. The detective shook his head. Kintyre poured for himself and sat down. The other man prowled.

"We haven't much time," said Yamamura. "What do we tell the cops?"

"Perhaps nothing—yet," said Kintyre slowly.

"Huh? How do you mean?"

"They don't use the third degree around here. O'Hearn isn't going to tell them a thing, and you know it. They'll have to check with Chicago, the FBI, follow a dozen separate leads for days at least. And what do his pals do meanwhile?"

Yamamura stopped in midstride. "If you have any half-cooked scheme of beating the truth out of him, forget it," he said in a chill voice.

"Oh, no," said Kintyre. "But do you think we could get away with holding him, unharmed, for maybe twenty-four hours?"

"It would be kidnaping."

"What was he trying to do to Guido?"

Yamamura stared at the sabers on the wall. "What do you want to do?"

"Get his information out of him in less time than the police will need."

"I think an excuse could be manufactured," said Yamamura dreamily. "If not for a whole twenty-four hours, for twelve or so. This reminds me of my days in OSS. Okay, I'll risk it."

"Good," said Kintyre. "Then follow my lead."

"Better explain—"

Kintyre was already in the bathroom, looking down at the man on the floor. O'Hearn had a long nose and not much chin. "Who hired you, Jimmy?" said Kintyre.

Hatred glared back at him. "Tough, aren't you?" said O'Hearn. "Big deal."

"I asked who hired you," said Kintyre.

He saw the growth of fear. "Look, I don't know," said O'Hearn. "And if I spilled anything, anything at all, they'd find out."

"And kill you. I've heard that line before." Kintyre shrugged. "You are going to tell me. Think about it while I make ready."

He took Yamamura out into the yard, toward the house. "My landlord left some extra keys with me, just in case," he said. "We'll borrow a soundproof room."

"Hey!" Yamamura stopped. "I told you, bodily harm is out."

"I've no such intention." Kintyre led him into the house and down to its basement. "We'll use the rumpus room. It has a pool table we can tie him to. The process seems to work best when the victim lies supine. I admit he might get a little stiff from the hard surface."

Yamamura grabbed his shoulder. "What the blue hell are you talking about?" he growled.

"They're just now beginning to study the mental effects of eliminating sensory stimuli," said Kintyre. "The mind goes out of whack amazingly fast. My friend Levinson, in the physiology department, was telling me about some recent experiments. Volunteers, intelligent self-controlled people who knew what it's all about and knew they could quit any time they wanted—none of which applies to O'Hearn—didn't last long. Hallucinations set in. Of course, we may have to mop up certain messes afterward."

"Do I understand you rightly?"

"I suppose so. The only thing we're going to do to O'Hearn is tie him down, flat on his back, blindfolded."

They would have to stand watch and watch outside the door. Kintyre took the first one, though he didn't expect a reaction soon. (On the other hand, an hour can stretch most hideously when you are alone in soundless dark, not even able to move.) He pulled up a chair and opened a book, but didn't read it. Nor did he listen to the defiant obscenities which came very faintly through the panels. Mostly he sat in a wordless half sleep.

Corinna, he thought. And then, later: I'm being infantile. It doesn't mean a thing, except that I've been celibate too long and by sheer chance she pushes a few buttons in me. It could not last—consider the difference in faith alone—and she would be hurt.

How do I know it wouldn't, even to the altar? (For surely it would last always, having taken us that far.)

I don't know. I suppose I'm being cowardly in not finding out.

Then again, long afterward: This couldn't be hurried in any event. We'd both go slowly, her loss is still so new. There'd be ample time for me to escape, before the pleasure of her presence became a necessity.

And once more: But why should I want to escape at all?

The first thin gray was stealing over the hills when Yamamura yawned his way in. O'Hearn hadn't cried out for some time; he lay breathing hard. "Solved the case yet?" asked Yamamura. "No? Well, run along and let a professional handle it."

Kintyre went across the yard. A bird twittered somewhere, drowsily. He entered the cottage and looked at Guido. Still out. The face was gone innocent with sleep, years had been lost, a della Robbia angel lay in his bed. He sighed, kicked off his shoes, and stretched on the living room couch. Darkness was quickly upon him.

16
Once the phone rang. He rolled over, refusing its summons, and went to sleep again. It was a little after six when a hand shook him awake. He struggled up through many gray layers. From far off he heard: "Jimmy's broken. Busted into pieces all over the place. Hoo, what a devil you are, my friend!"

Kintyre sat up, feeling sticky. Yamamura gave him a lighted cigarette and he took a few puffs. "Okay," he said.

The early sunlight and the rushing sound of early traffic whetted him as he left the cottage, until he went clear-brained to the shivering, screaming thing on the pool table and said: "I'll take the blindfold off when you've talked. Not before."

"Let me go, let me go, let me see!" wept O'Hearn.

"Shut up or I'll leave you for another day or two," said Kintyre.

O'Hearn gasped himself toward a kind of silence.

"Did you help kill Bruce Lombardi?" asked Kintyre.

"No." A cracked whine. "I mean, I was there. But the others, Silenio, Larkin, they done it. I didn't touch him myself. Let me out of here!"

"Shut up, I told you." Kintyre drew deeply on his cigarette. "I suspect you're lying about your own role," he continued, "but never mind that now, if you don't lie on the next question. Who hired you?"

"I don't know!"

"So long," said Kintyre.

"I don't know! I don't! They never told me! Silenio knows! I don't! I just worked for Joe Silenio! Ask him!"

Yamamura, looking a little sick, said: "That's probably true, Bob. Our kingpin called this Silenio in Chicago, and Silenio rounded up a couple of assistants. The less they know, the better. Silenio gets the kingpin's money and pays off the other two himself."

Kintyre groaned. "And we had to catch one of the deadheads! Well, let's see what else can be learned."

It came out in harsh automatic sentences. O'Hearn's will, never strong, had altogether failed him. He answered questions without evasions, but like a robot.

Silenio had contacted him and Larkin the Tuesday of last week. It was to be a well paid job, ten thousand dollars on completion of the first assignment and a hundred dollars a day while they waited for the next. ("No, I didn't know nothing, I don't know who else we'd go after!") The trio caught a plane to San Francisco that night. At intervals on Wednesday and Thursday Silenio had conferred with whoever engaged them, while Larkin and O'Hearn looked for a suitable house. Their find was rented on Friday, an old house in a run-down district at the southern end of town; and each of them bought a good used car elsewhere. Meanwhile, on Thursday night, Larkin and O'Hearn had lined up Guido. That had been at Silenio's orders, presumably derived from the boss's. The boss himself had arranged for Bruce to come to the house on Saturday, calling him on the phone with some plausible story. They captured Bruce very simply, with a gun, and tied him up. Silenio questioned him. Bruce had gotten stubborn with outrage—Kintyre knew how stubborn that could be—and the interrogation took a few hours; even after he broke they continued the pain a while, to make sure. Finally they cut his throat over the bathtub, dressed him in old clothes, and got rid of the body across the Bay on Sunday night.

"The questions, you bastard," snarled Kintyre. "Didn't the questions Silenio was asking tell you something?"

"It was all in wop," groaned O'Hearn. "I don't know wop."

Italy again. Though I suppose that our X would have made a special effort to get an Italian-speaking lieutenant, as another safeguard for himself.

"One thing so far," murmured Yamamura. "Guido is in the clear."

"Is he?" said Kintyre bitterly. "Wouldn't it be a beautiful turnabout, to make himself look like the fall guy for his own scheme?"

He turned back to the crooked blind face on the table. "What did you do afterward?"

"Waited in the house. Played cards. Silenio got the money for this job in the afternoon. Cash. He went out for it. Larkin went to pay off the Lombardi sucker Tuesday evening. That was because he didn't show Monday, account of his brother. Larkin got into a fight. We didn't know what it meant. Silenio called the boss and they talked on the phone in wop. Silenio told me to go pick up Guido Lombardi tonight. I figured we was going to find out how much he knew and then maybe dump him too, but I don't know for sure."

"Did anything else go on, this night?"

"Silenio and Larkin had another job."

"Where?"

"I don't know." The voice had become a worn rattling.

"Were you supposed to meet them at the house?"

"I was supposed to wait there with Lombardi till they got back. Silenio wasn't telling either of us more'n he had to."

"Will they be back there now?"

"I dunno."

"Suppose they came back and didn't find you? What would they do?"

"Try and find out what happened, I guess. Wouldn't stay in the house if it looked like something had gone wrong."

"Where would they go?"

"I don't know. Some hotel, I guess."

"And what would you do, if you couldn't find them?"

"Go back to Chi, I guess."

"No spare rendezvous," said Yamamura. "Lousy doctrine."

"Not if you're using expendables," said Kintyre. "And this bum is expendable. I imagine Larkin is too, though enough more valuable to go with Silenio—where?"

"Over here," said Yamamura.

"Very likely to kill someone else." Kintyre looked dully at the stub of his cigarette on the floor. He didn't remember dropping it. "We'll read in the papers who it was."

"If we aren't the target ourselves," said Yamamura. "Right now anything seems possible." He sighed. "Well, I'd better call the police."

"Wait a bit," said Kintyre.

"But that house—God knows what's going on there, right now!"

"Nothing, I'm sure. If only because Silenio and Larkin will be worried by O'Hearn's absence. Let's have breakfast, at least, before calling. You devise a story that won't make us quite such lawbreakers. I'm going to try and sort out my thoughts. I have an idea. It's driving me crackers, Trig. I feel I know what this is all about and still there's some kind of wall between me and the knowledge. A wall I've built myself!"

"Hm," said Yamamura. He gave the other man a meditative stare. "Yes, it might be worth while waiting till after we eat."

Kintyre went out, beating a fist softly into his palm. Yamamura paused to release O'Hearn's eyes. O'Hearn lay and wept.

While the detective made breakfast in the cottage, Kintyre took a shower. Then a shave, clean clothes, tee shirt, khaki pants, tennis shoes, brought him physically closer to humanness.

Inside, he was afraid, and he did not know why.

Guido appeared in the kitchen as Kintyre re-entered. He looked at the others with deer shyness. "Good morning," he ventured.

"Hello," said Yamamura. "Pull up an egg and sit down."

Guido perched on a chair's edge. No one spoke until coffee and food were within them. Somehow, the blue and green planet beyond the windows had become alien; they sat in a private darkness.

"I—" began Guido. He stopped.

"Go ahead," said Yamamura. Kintyre listened with a fractional ear. Mostly he was inside his own skull, shouting for something which did not answer.

"I'd like to say thanks, is all," offered Guido.

"It's okay," said Yamamura.

"Look, are you sitting and worrying about me?"

"In a way. The trouble is, you see, if we take your story at face value, we have no plausible suspects left. But two more killers and their chief are loose, probably arranging another murder. If it hasn't already been done."

"Whose?" whispered Guido.

"If we knew that," said Yamamura gloomily, "we could get a police guard for him. But until we've identified the chief, there's no way of figuring who the next victim might be."

"No," said Kintyre.

He sat up straight, feeling how cold his hands were. It came to him, through a great hollowness—each instant he seemed more remote from himself—that he could have found his enemy before now. He had enough facts to reason on. He was still feeling his way a step at a time, but he felt there would be an end to his journey.

And he felt, without yet knowing why, that the horror waited for him there.

He said, sensing a resonance within his head, as if his voice formed echoes:

"It has to be someone who knew Bruce at least fairly well. He went to that house because of a telephone call. He didn't own a car and wouldn't borrow Margery's. That's a long awkward trip, by street train and bus. He wouldn't make it casually. He'd want to know why he was being asked to come to this address he'd never heard of before, without telling anyone. The person who called (and could have been right in Berkeley, of course) had to be somebody who could give Bruce a strong, convincing reason. What it was, I don't know. It doesn't matter now, it was surely a lie. But a lie he would accept! From a person he trusted."

He stopped. Guido said with a certain boy-eagerness: "Who knew him best? His girl friend!"

Kintyre shook his head, violently, uncertain why the idea should smite him so.

"Nope," said Yamamura. "Too much lets her out; hell, the simple fact that she doesn't speak Italian. That she hasn't the money, or the connections, or anything."

"I haven't the money either," said Guido defensively.

"For all I know, you could have ten million dollars hoarded," said Yamamura.

The anger in Guido's face reminded Kintyre of Corinna. He snatched for the memory, it warmed him a minute and was torn away again. He shivered.

"Guido's story has to be accepted, I think," he said. There was no color in his words, but they came fast. "All the psychological quirks he's shown. He bopped me with a stool to let Larkin get away, because he was deathly afraid. But he cried at having hurt me, even so trivially. Also: could that parcel of marijuana have been in the drawer by sheer coincidence? And even if he planned some complicated misdirection that made him his own fall guy, it would not have involved something as serious as dope. He could have gone to jail for that, or been deported. And why? What reason? Insane jealousy won't fit such an elaborate procedure. It would have to be money. And where would he, drifting between minor night club engagements, sponging off his parents when he isn't shacked up with some tart, where would he find time for a million-dollar enterprise?"

Guido reddened. "Hey!" he protested.

"You had that coming," said Yamamura. He turned his back on Guido, who slumped, pouting. "It doesn't look as if X really believed an accessory-to-murder rap could be hung on the boy," he remarked. "Not when you demolish it so fast."

"Perhaps not." Kintyre struggled for clarity within himself. "But Guido would have wriggled and evaded much more if the police had questioned him, dug in his heels at every step, for fear of the dope charge. When he finally realized the situation and confessed, if he did at all, it would have been too late. He would have served X's purpose of holding up the police for days.

"And the fact that he fell so neatly into the slot clinches the proof that X knows the Lombardi family well."

"You've ruled out Michaelis & Son," said Yamamura. "That's confirmed by the gangsters still operating with them in clink. Who's left, the writer?"

Kintyre said: "He blew into town less than two weeks ago, having never met Bruce in his life before. Their time together was a few meetings devoted to professional arguments. How could he know Guido? And his only motive would have been to eliminate Bruce. Simple murder would have sufficed, not calling in three expensive sadists to do a job of kidnaping and interrogation. Also, I proved to myself, without meaning to, that he's a physical coward. I doubt if he could have asked someone like Larkin the time of day. Or run the risk of detection. No, there was just one way Owens helped the killers, and that was unintentional."

"How?" asked Yamamura.

Kintyre looked at his hands. They were clasped together, as if to hold the safe nonmurderer, Jabez Owens, tightly to him. But the wind streamed and the sea ramped beneath it, Owens was whirled from his fingers and drowned with all the rest, all the rest. He said from the noise of great waters:

"Owens was after the Book of Witches, yes. First he tried bribery. Then, the minute he heard Bruce was dead, he went over to the history building, I suppose trying to get up nerve to go in and see if the volume was there. He saw me instead, and urged me to take Margery out that night; he did know, like everyone else, that she'd been living with Bruce. He burgled the apartment. An amateur job. If he'd used his brains, he would at least have taken some valuables. But he didn't even bother to open places where the book couldn't possibly be. That alone pretty well shows who did it. He tried again yesterday, in my office, actually pulled it off, but Clayton—well, all it accomplished was to divert our attention."

He wondered remotely how they could fail to see what was happening to him; and how long before it broke his shell and they could not escape seeing.

"Bruce's immediate family?" said Yamamura. "No motive, no money, no connections, no opportunity. Write 'em off. Can you think of any of his friends at the University who aren't eliminated by the same reasoning?"

"No."

"But who's left? Clayton? What motive? And in all the months he's been here, I'd have an inkling if he weren't honest. No hint of underworld tie-ins. Who's left?"

Kintyre stood before the last wall. It had the form of a ship's tilted deck.

"If I knew why," he said, holding his voice utterly planar, "I think the how would follow. Why was Bruce killed? Because of something he knew. It could only be that. He was tortured to get out of him the precise extent of his knowledge, and who else might share it. That other person is the next victim. But what was in Bruce's background? A knowledge of history—the Book of Witches—correspondence with—" His throat seemed to swell, it would not let the words out for a moment—"with an uncle in Italy, who told him something—"

"Something about the Mafia?" snorted Yamamura. "Come, now!"

"Bruce didn't realize the significance of what he knew," said Kintyre. Iron bands lay across his chest. "He couldn't have kept a secret like that. He went to X, I suppose—with—a warning? Or mere gossip, as he thought? What about? Surely not Cousin Giovanni, or the Albigensians. What else was there? Some information on crime in the Mediterranean countries. And—God help us!"

The table went over with a crash as Kintyre stood up. It was not himself who screamed: "Margery! She's next in line!" Himself stood among breakers and heard the mainmast split.

Yamamura looked at him, cursed, and reached for the telephone.

"I'm going over there," rattled Kintyre. "I might get there first. I might, it might not be too late."

"They had all night," said Yamamura. His finger stabbed the dial.

Kintyre blundered into the door. He thought vaguely that he ought to open it. Someone stood at his elbow. He shoved. "Take it slow," said Guido. "Let me help you."

Yamamura said in the phone: "Tim? This is Trig. Never mind formalities. Get a car to the apartment of Margery Towne. She may still be alive.... No, I don't remember the damned address! What's the directory for?"

"You're in no shape to steer a car," said Guido. "Where are your keys? Come on and guide me."

Kintyre sat shaking all the way over. Guido drove with a Cossack will to arrive at which a part of Kintyre, drowning among the reefs of Taputenea, knew dim surprise.

They did not beat the police, though. Officer Moffat met them on the front steps. Blankness lay in his gaze.

"We came too late," he said. "Her throat's cut."

"I expected that," said Kintyre.

The horror rose up and took him.

17
Jimmy O'Hearn was still snuffling when the police unbound him and led him off to be booked. Inspector Harries went back into the yard with Yamamura and Guido. "All right, Trig," he said, "now tell me just what did happen."

"Dr. Kintyre, Mr. Lombardi's sister, and I went to see Mr. Lombardi at the night club where he works," answered Yamamura. "He was pretty worried. O'Hearn and another chap named Larkin had hired him to do a certain out-of-town job over the very weekend his brother was killed. He wondered if it was a coincidence."

"O'Hearn babbled something about a package of dope," said Inspector Harries grimly. Guido became busy lighting a cigarette.

"Sure," said Yamamura. "Why not try to drag down the witnesses against him? Where is this package?"

"Suppose you tell me yourself what the job was, Mr. Lombardi," said Harries without warmth.

"Well, they did want me to go to Tijuana and get some pod," said Guido. Yamamura had briefed him in a moment's stolen privacy. "I admit I went down—is uncompleted intent a crime? I changed my mind and didn't actually get the stuff." Impudence danced over his lips. "It'd have been illegal. And also, thinking it over, I saw that the errand didn't make sense. There are enough places right here that carry the same line."

"Hm. Any witnesses?"

Guido shrugged. "No. How could there be? I suppose you can prove I was in Tijuana and ate a few meals there."

"I would think you'd have more important things to do than asking out the details of something which is contradicted only by the unsupported word of a gangster," said Yamamura.

Harries considered him angrily. "You were my friend, Trig," he said. "Don't add insult to injury."

"I had no choice," said Yamamura, very low.

"The night before last," said Guido, "Larkin showed up and got violent with Professor Kintyre, who was talking to me. Quite a brawl. Larkin got away, and Kintyre left too when I begged him. I admit I lied to the officers afterward, claiming I didn't know either one of them, but by then I was scared."

"Go on," grunted Harries.

"So we had a conference of friends-and-relations last night," said Yamamura. "We decided it was best to make a clean breast with the police. Ahem, that was my advice. But O'Hearn stopped us at gun point as we came out the back way. He was going to kidnap Mr. Lombardi. We got the upper hand, though. Yes, we took him over here, instead of turning him in to the San Francisco authorities as we should have. Why? First, Larkin might well be hanging around, and why should he be helped by seeing a lot of uniforms and realizing what had happened to his buddy? Second, we were afraid for our lives on that side and wanted to get the hell away from there."

Harries gave him a thin look. "I know you. I don't believe that."

"A jury would," said Yamamura. "Let me go on. Dr. Kintyre took Miss Lombardi home—she's entirely innocent in all of this. When he finally arrived here, we were so bushed that none of us thought we could face all the questions without a little sleep. Sure, sure, Inspector, everything we did was foolish and mildly illegal, but consider how exhausted we were. Much too tired to think straight. We tied O'Hearn to the table—"

"Why the blindfold, for Pete's sake?"

"It just seemed like a good idea. When we woke up, we found O'Hearn had the screaming meemies. Naturally we wouldn't lose such a chance, it might not come again. We asked him some things. We talked it over. All of a sudden the significance dawned on Dr. Kintyre. You know the rest."

"What I don't yet know is what you'll be charged with," said Harries. "Among other things, some of the coldest-blooded lying I've heard all week."

"Isn't that a problem for the district attorney?" asked Yamamura, unruffled.

"Yes. And of course nothing will be done. You're comic book heroes—for violating the Fifth Amendment!" Harries shook his head. "If it hadn't been for all your shilly-shallying, Miss Towne might be alive this morning."

"When was she killed?" asked Yamamura.

"The doctor thinks around midnight or one o'clock."

"Nobody could have known," said Yamamura. "Suppose we had turned O'Hearn in directly. He had no idea who was slated to die: not even what kind of job his associates were doing. He's just a goon."

"I suppose so." As he watched, Yamamura saw the anger go out of Harries. "We'd still be interrogating him and getting no place. Whereas now, maybe the San Francisco force can take the others in that house." The inspector hesitated. "Officially, I can only condemn your actions, including your concealment of facts. And you know I know fairly well what those facts are. I'll have to report all this and—and hell, there's no material evidence, and the D.A. has to consider public opinion, and why waste funds on petty charges which would never get past a jury? You'll get away with it this time. And strictly unofficially, I've no right to say it, but I guess I'm not too damn mad at you."

Yamamura did not smile. "I wish Bob could see it that way," he answered.

"What's the matter with him, anyhow?"

"A bad nervous spell. He gets them once in a while."

"Just like that?" asked Guido.

"No," said Yamamura. "It looks like a sudden collapse, but it isn't. He worked hard through the academic year. It brought him close to the edge, he needed a vacation badly. Instead, all this strain and—He feels morbidly responsible. There are reasons for it. They lie in his past and don't concern us."

"How about a psychiatrist?" inquired Harries.

"He hasn't got that kind of money. And we all have some such curse—don't we now? Some people have dizzy spells. Some people are hypochondriacs. Once every couple of years, Kintyre spends a few days in hell."

"But what made him realize Miss Towne was—?"

"He answered the riddle, of course. He knew who had hired the killers, and why. From that, it followed she was next."

Harries caught his arm so tightly he winced. "What?"

"Uh-huh," said Yamamura. "Wait, though. He didn't tell me."

"But he's in there now and—come on!"

Yamamura caught Harries by the shoulder and spun him around. "No," he said. "It isn't right. Leave him alone."

"Leave the murderers alone, too!" snapped Harries.

Yamamura rubbed his chin. They could see how he slumped.

"There is that," he agreed. "Let me go in by myself, then, and talk to him."

Kintyre thought he had carried it off very well. He had spoken coherently with Moffat. The policeman told him in a sick voice that blood had soaked through her mattress until the floor was clotted beneath her bed. Guido swayed on his feet. Kintyre's face had remained like carved bone.

"Was jewelry lifted this time?" he asked. "Oh, yes, it was a professional job, all the earmarks," said Moffat. "But did you see two long gray cardboard boxes with files of papers? They'd be in plain sight in the living room if they're there at all," said Kintyre. "No, no such thing, the burglars must have taken them in the hope of finding stowed cash," said Moffat. "The jewelry was only to make you think that. Had she simply been murdered, or was she tied down first?" asked Kintyre. "Yes, tied down, blindfolded, mouth full of towel," said Moffat. "The burglars came in and grabbed her while she slept, secured her so there would be no chance she could identify them," said Kintyre. "That's not unheard of, but then why did they kill her afterward?" asked Moffat. "Because the letter boxes were still open on the coffee table," said Kintyre. "What?" said Moffat. "It proved she had been reading Bruce Lombardi's mail; the burglars' orders were to get rid of her if that was the case," said Kintyre. "Hey, how do you know all this?" asked Moffat. But then Kintyre felt his control begin to crack, so he turned about and went back to his car with Guido.

He lay on his couch, pillowing his head with an arm, a cigarette in the free hand. Now and then he noticed himself smoking it. The morning streamed in through the window behind him and splashed light, and the delicate shadows of leaves, on the wall before his eyes. Once he remembered how a sunbeam, spearing through a sky roiled and black with oncoming rain, had flamed from crest to crest along the ocean; he watched the sun's shining feet stride past him. But there followed an M which staggered among hideous winds, it spoke of Morna and Margery and the Moon. He spent a long time wondering why M stood for the Moon until he remembered Hecate, in whose jaws he lived. M was also for Machiavelli, a Moldering skull which knew somewhat of Murder. But all this was not important, it was Morbid and he only played with it on the surface, as if it were spindrift driven by that wind he knew. In the ocean of his damnation there were green Miles, which became black as you went downward, drank all sunlight and ate drowned folk.

This, however, was natural and right, life unto life and he could wish no better ending for himself than to breathe the sea. It must be remembered, though, that Morna was only thirteen years old. She reached for him through a shattering burst of water. He could not hear if she screamed, the wind made such a haro, but a wave picked her up and threw her backward and growled. He saw her long hair flutter in its white, blowing mane. Then dark violence rolled over him.

He stirred, and felt that his cigarette had gone so short it would burn his fingers. A part of him suggested he let it, but he ground the butt out in an ashtray on the floor. What he was would not be lessened by a few blisters, he thought.

It was not that he accepted guilt (he told the morning gulls on the reef, among sharded timbers). It was that he was damned, without a God or a Devil to judge him: it was merely in the nature of things that he did nothing well. Morna should drown and Margery should drown—the human body held that much blood—because—no, said the seed of survival within him, not because it was his fault.

And was there anything more irrelevant than the question of his guilt or innocence? The sole fact that mattered was:

Morna, thirteen years old, hauled down under the sea and rolled across a barnacled reef. He had found her washed up the next morning, before the boat came out to rescue him. A strand of hair still clung in place, darkened by water but more bright than the coral. He saw some of the bones; a tiny crab ran out of her eye socket.

Kintyre hung onto the couch through a whiteness that hummed.

Ages afterward he remembered Margery. She had never spoken of it, but he had an impression that she feared death. It ended future and past alike, nothing would be, nothing had ever been. She must have told herself often enough that maybe science would find a way to make her immortal, before she died. But death was a long way off, fifty years or more were a distance which dwindled the shape, only a small black blot on the edge of her world.

She lay blind and bound, a towel choking her mouth. She could hear her heart, how it leaped, she feared it would crack itself open. And then the hand under her jaw, the nearly painless bite of the knife, and the minutes it took for her blood to run out, while she lay there and felt it!

"No," said Kintyre. "No, no, no. Please."

He reached hazily for another cigarette. He couldn't find the pack. Suddenly he was afraid to look for it. He lay back on the couch. The sunlight on the wall seemed unreal.

He didn't hear Yamamura come in. He needed a while to understand that the detective was looking at him.

"What is it?" he got out somehow.

"Let's work some of that stiffness out," said Yamamura.

Kintyre didn't move. He wasn't sure he could. At least it didn't seem worth while. Yamamura swore, hauled him to a sitting position, peeled off his tee shirt and dumped him on the rug.

The Japanese massage, thumbs, elbows, and bare feet, was hard, cracking muscles loose from their tension. Kintyre heard joints pop when Yamamura straightened his arms. Once anguish got an oath from him.

"Sorry," said Yamamura. "I gauged wrong."

"Like hell! You did that on purpose!"

"Trade secrets. Now, over on your side."

In half an hour Kintyre was sitting on the couch, drawing ragged gulps of smoke down his lungs. "All right," he said. "So you relaxed me physically."

"Helps, doesn't it?" Yamamura leaned against the wall and mopped his sweating face.

"Some. But no cure." Kintyre looked bleakly toward the afternoon and the night.

"Didn't claim it was. Got any tranquilizers on hand?"

"Uh-huh. Only helps a little bit. I might as well ride these things out."

"Same symptoms?"

"Yes. Futility. Loss. Destruction. Grief? No, that's too healthy a word. I'm only talking to you with the top of my brain now, you realize. It feels the same as ever, down below."

"Basically, you feel guilt," said Yamamura.

"Perhaps. I saw my sister drown. I was hanging onto a spar when the ship broke up. She was swept past me. I reached out, our fingers touched, then she was gone again. I didn't let go of the spar."

"If you had, both of you would have drowned. I know the Pacific surf. With a typhoon behind it—You're guilty of nothing except better luck than she had."

"Sure," said Kintyre. "I've told myself the same thing for twenty years."

"You've told me this story three times so far," said Yamamura. "I don't like parlor Freudianism, but it would seem obvious that something deeper is involved than the mere fact that you survived and she didn't."

Kintyre half rose. He felt the lift of rage within himself. "Be careful!" he shouted.

Yamamura's face went totally blank. "Ah-ha. Sit back, son. I'm still the black belt man here. You'd only succeed in tearing up this nice room."

Kintyre spat: "There was nothing!"

"I never said that. Of course there was nothing improper. I am not implying you had any conscious thoughts whatsoever that you can't safely remember. Or if you did now and then—and as for your subconscious wishes—were they really so evil? She was the only girl of your generation whom you'd see for weeks and months at a time. So you loved her. Is love ever a sin?"

Kintyre slumped. Yamamura laid a hand on his shoulder. "There's a story about two Zen Buddhist monks who were walking somewhere," he said. "They came to a river. A woman stood by the bank, afraid to cross. One of them carried her over. Then the two monks continued on their way. The gallant one was singing cheerfully, the other got gloomier and gloomier. Finally the second one exclaimed: 'How could you, a monk, take up a woman in your arms?' The first one answered: 'Oh, are you still carrying her? I set her down back at the ford.'"

Kintyre didn't move. "Forgive my amateur psychoanalysis," said Yamamura. "It's none of my business." He paused. "I would only suggest that it's no service to anyone we've cared for, not to let them rest."

He sat down beside Kintyre and took out his pipe. They smoked together for a wordless while.

"Well," said Kintyre at last. "Have you figured out who's behind the murders?"

"No. Think you can tell us? Feel free to wait."

"Oh, I can. M-m-m-m-margery—"

Yamamura worked powerful fingers along Kintyre's shoulders and the base of his neck. "Go on," he said.

"Margery's death—brought back Morna's, I suppose—I failed them both. I didn't need O'Hearn's story to determine who instigated all this. I could have told you yesterday afternoon, if I'd used my head—Ouch!"

"That," said Yamamura, "was to halt an incipient tailspin. I felt it coming. You are not to blame for one damn item except being human and therefore limited, fallible, and unable to do everything simultaneously on roller skates. If you forget that again, I shall punch you in a more sensitive spot. Now why don't you go swallow one of those chemical consolations?"

"I told you they don't help much."

"I've no high opinion of 'em myself, but do so anyway."

When Kintyre had returned and sat down again, Yamamura said: "Okay, carry on. Who is our man?"

18
"Clayton," said Kintyre.

"Huh?" The pipe almost dropped from Yamamura's hand. "What the hell! Why, for God's sake?"

"Bruce got too much information about Clayton's rackets."

"What rackets? Clayton's straight! I never heard a hint—"

"Oh, yes. He's straight enough on this side of the Atlantic."

Yamamura muttered something profane. "How do you know?" he added.

"It fits the facts. Bruce was corresponding with his uncle Luigi, the secret service man. Some discussion of highly organized postwar crime syndicates in the Mediterranean countries came up. Now Clayton was a go-getter type who'd lost everything he had three times in a row: the Depression, his first wife's death, divorce from his second wife. It must have embittered him, so that he determined he would never again be poor and defenseless. He came to Italy as a Quartermaster officer in the war. Perfect chance for black marketing, if a man didn't mind taking a few risks. The miracle is not that a few QM people went bad but that most stayed honest. Clayton probably started in a very small way with cigarettes and K rations. But by the end of the war he was in touch with some pretty big figures in the Italian underworld, and saw the opportunities. He came right back after his discharge and went to work at it full time.

"Obviously, he's a hell of a good organizer. He got in on the postwar reconstruction of crime, along lines borrowed from gangland and Communism. He probably set out as a currency black marketeer, working through Switzerland. He soon expanded into other things, smuggling, dope, prostitution, gambling, the works. He became rich."

"Have you any proof of all this?" interrupted Yamamura.

"Chiefly, that it and only it will fit the facts. Let me go on, I'll fill in evidence as I proceed. The trouble with Clayton's riches was, they were mostly in lire, French francs, and other soft valuta. Also, governments all get nosy about resident aliens; he couldn't hope to avoid suspicion forever, without a good cover. He solved both his problems by becoming an importer. He bought European goods with his European money, shipped them over here, and sold them for dollars. On this side he's lily white, and familiar with prominent Americans of unquestionable integrity. Knowing this, Europeans don't think he might be something else on their continent. You can imagine the details."

"Yes," said Yamamura. "I can."

"Now for some facts as well as theories. Let's go back to Uncle Luigi. He's trying to break these syndicates, one of which is headed by the eminent Signor Clayton. Of course, because of its cell organization, Luigi and his colleagues don't know that. If they did, they could crack a lot of rackets open. All they have against Clayton is that a few of his business associates have bad associates of their own, notably some of the deported Italian-American gangsters. But what of it? Everybody outside a monastery must know some dubious characters.

"Well, because Clayton came here to work at opening a San Francisco branch, and because he brought the Liber Veneficarum along, he got to know Bruce. In fact, they came to be on very friendly terms. Clayton is genial enough, if you don't get in his way. Uncle Luigi, being somewhat anti-American, insisted that Signor Clayton had an unfair advantage, having started as a wealthy man with lots of dollars. That didn't fit with Clayton's own rags-to-riches story. Bruce got indignant, checked up, and established that Clayton had indeed been almost penniless when he came to Italy. And Luigi, as I mentioned before, had also happened to give Bruce some facts regarding crime, corruption, and the syndicates.

"I don't know just when Clayton learned about all this discussion. Perhaps a week ago last Sunday, when he saw Bruce over in the City and refused to give Guido a job. Clayton admits Bruce got mad; perhaps he said things then. Clayton smoothed his feathers and agreed to interview Guido next day. Maybe Clayton was already spinning a plan.

"Or it may have been amicable. Bruce had no reason to suspect Clayton of anything. We'd have known it otherwise; Bruce was constitutionally incapable of keeping a secret. Maybe in the love feast following his explosion, he blurted out how he had triumphantly refuted Uncle Luigi's sneers at the Horatio Alger rise of Gerald Clayton, and planned to send Uncle Luigi all the facts and demand an apology. At the same time, Bruce could have spoken about the syndicates. He was just naive enough to have warned Clayton, who spent half his time overseas, to look out for the mobs! Well, one way or another, Clayton drew him out, doubtless in that conference they had after Guido was dismissed. Clayton was alerted."

It was peculiar, thought Kintyre, that he could talk so coolly while the horror was on him. But he had the horror locked away for this short time, he heard it speaking but did not really feel it.

"He could have pumped both brothers on Monday," nodded Yamamura. "Bruce in particular, but he would have seen how Guido might be made into a decoy—uh-huh. So he called a Chicago mob. But—"

"But why? Isn't it obvious, Trig? Bruce and Luigi were corresponding on two subjects which would explode if they were ever fitted together: Clayton and the Old World rackets. When Bruce revealed that Clayton had not, after all, started by depositing American dollars in Swiss banks, Luigi would begin to wonder. Bruce had even casually agreed that Clayton might have picked up a little loose change originally on the black bourse, which did not strike him as very heinous. Luigi might see deeper possibilities along those lines. Or things Luigi wrote could even make Bruce wonder, who knows? It wouldn't necessarily happen either way, but it was too big a risk to take. The American government itself, if it gets interested, has ways to check on its citizens abroad. So Bruce had to be eliminated. And he had to be questioned first, in detail, to learn precisely what he did know and who else knew. For instance, was Luigi already so well informed as to be dangerous? This was a job for professionals."

"And there's where your theory creaks," said Yamamura. "If Clayton is so law-abiding on American soil, where could he dig up his butcher boys on such short notice?"

"That hint was in Bruce's files," said Kintyre. "Your information about Clayton's telephoning adds detail. He must have called one of his not-very-respectable Italian associates. I seem to remember the name Dolce, you can try that on the switchboard girl for recognitionor. Does the phone office keep records of such things? I don't know. Let's assume he called Dolce, to give the man a name. He ordered him: 'Get hold of a recent deportee from America'—you can guess who better than I, Trig—'and ask him how I can get in touch with a professional killer in this country.' He may have phrased it more euphemistically, but that was the sense of it. Next day Dolce or whoever called back. (Why else should a busy man like Clayton hang around home? Why not take the call in his office? Because his office deals directly with Italy, the switchboard girl there probably speaks the language and might eavesdrop.) Thus Clayton got the number of Silenio, and any passwords or the like that were needed. He went out to a pay booth and called him. O'Hearn has told us the rest."

Yamamura nodded. "Could be," he said.

"Tell me what else will explain the facts. And let me continue. Clayton came over here last Thursday on business, and threw a party in his suite for historians and literary scholars, including Bruce and me. I rather imagine he was looking for another red herring. Owens must have been promising. Not that Owens seems to have been jockeyed into anything, as Guido was, but Clayton dropped hints detrimental to him later on.

"Clayton made sure of being alibied the whole weekend. Of course, it was simple enough to make the call which lured Bruce to his death. He could have phoned from a pay booth right in sight of the world. I don't know what he told Bruce, probably that he might have something for Guido after all but it was confidential. Make your own lie.

"Monday he returned to the City. Silenio reported to him, got paid off, and was told to wait. Clayton had a problem: Bruce's files were still in Margery's apartment. Silenio would have learned that. Clayton had to choke off this last source of information. He came back here Tuesday and invited me to lunch with him. I gave him some idea of how well his tracks really were covered—and when I told him Margery's place had already been raided, it was a shock. He questioned me, found that the papers he was after were still unread, and deftly turned suspicion back on Owens: where for once it actually belonged. However, he must have felt the need to act fast. So he stayed in Berkeley, though he'd told me at lunch he planned to go back to San Francisco. (Will any hypothesis of yours explain why he changed his mind and spent more than twenty-four unproductive hours on this side? He, the animated cash register?) I met him again on Wednesday, when we had our run-in with Owens."

Kintyre sighed. "That's the damnable part of it. I sat there drinking coffee with the true, ultimate murderer. He urged me to take Margery out. I told him I had another engagement. If I had gone out with her, she'd be alive. God, if she'd dated him she might be! He was going to ask her. She told me, when I mentioned it, that she would refuse his invitation. He wanted to get her out of the way. But when she stayed—

"I helped her read those letters!"

"Slow down there," said Yamamura.

It was still later when the detective went back outdoors. An officer was watching Guido, who was laying out a solitaire hand on the stoop. The policeman said: "Inspector Harries would like to get a formal statement from you at headquarters, sir."

Yamamura nodded. Guido raised his brows and slanted his head at the cottage. "Could be worse," said Yamamura. "Suppose you leave him alone for an hour or so and then go in and make him some lunch."

"Sure," said Guido.

The policeman followed Yamamura out the drive. At the station, he was shown directly into Harries' office. The inspector was just laying down the phone. "San Francisco," he said. "They raided that address. Traces of occupancy, but nobody home."

"Any other news?" Yamamura sat down and folded his long legs.

"They let the Michaelises go. Gene broke down when they did—reaction, I guess—and admitted where he'd been Saturday night and Sunday. Shacked up."

"I wouldn't think he'd try to hide that. He'd have bragged."

"This time he had two metal legs and he paid. Not much, he hasn't got much, but he paid, for the first time in his life."

"Poor bastard. I can imagine how he feels."

"Well," said Harries, "what does Kintyre think?"

Yamamura told him.

Harries whistled. "That wouldn't even get past a grand jury," he said.

"It's a line worth further investigation, though," said Yamamura mildly. "I wonder where Clayton is right now?"

Harries snatched up the phone. Yamamura waited.

The inspector hung up with a bang. "Not at the Fairhill. I'll try his place in the City, and the office. Know the numbers?"

Presently: "Not there, either. Well, it's no crime. But I'll put a man on it."

"About releasing information to the press," said Yamamura. "Could you withhold any mention of Kintyre? He's in no shape to see reporters, or even tell them to go away."

"Glad to," said Harries. "We're going to sit on the facts as much as possible. We'll get the papers to cooperate. Why let the killers know what we know? They can guess we hold O'Hearn, but not that O'Hearn squealed."

"Good. Now let me make that statement so I can get back to my own office. Maybe a client has shown up, for a change."

None had. Yamamura polished his new sword. A thought nagged the back of his being. If Clayton was guilty, why should Clayton disappear? Harries was right, Kintyre's reasoning was skeletal. Without further evidence, it wouldn't be enough to arrest a dog for flea scratching. Clayton would do best to sit tight and be wronged righteousness.

But did he know that? O'Hearn had been sent after Guido merely because Larkin had gotten in a fight at the Alley Cat. If Larkin had not remembered the name "Kintyre" and reported it through Silenio, Clayton could still have made a shrewd guess at it. Yamamura picked up his own phone and dialed.

"Hi, Bob. How goes it?"

"I'm breathing," said Kintyre listlessly.

"Nobody at the murder house. Clayton has dropped from sight, too. You and Guido could be the next targets. Want a police guard?"

"No. He wouldn't be stupid enough to try for us just now," said Kintyre, without great interest. "Especially when he doesn't know how much I know. He would establish that first—yes, that would need his personal attention. Let's reconstruct it."

He voiced his thoughts as they ran, in flat metallic words. "Larkin and Silenio got back from their—their mission—and didn't find O'Hearn at the house. They waited till they got alarmed, then bolted and called Clayton in Berkeley. That would have been in the small hours, before sunrise. Clayton could have called the old Lombardis, pretending to be an anxious friend, and found Guido had not come home. The same pretense might have worked with the San Francisco police—nope, they had no word of any Guido Lombardi—no O'Hearn. He would also have drawn a blank in Berkeley. So. Somebody picked them both up. In view of the Alley Cat episode, he would suspect me. I remember now my phone rang, early in the morning. I didn't answer. Was that him, trying to check if I was at home? If he drove by, he'd have seen my shades pulled. He had no way of knowing O'Hearn was right here. He would have concluded: either I had nothing to do with it, or I had taken O'Hearn somewhere for private investigation.

"If he rubbed me out and I was innocent of meddling, well, too bad. He dared not assume anything except that Guido and I had O'Hearn—where? If he could track us down and dispose of us—of anyone who might finger him—yes, then later on he could bribe someone, a call girl perhaps, to give him a perjured alibi for the time involved, if any alibi was ever needed. Then nothing could ever be proved about his misdeeds on this side of the water. Of course, the Italian police and American foreign agents might be clued to his overseas work—but at worst he could stay home, or retire to some South American country that won't extradite him. But all this, avoiding arrest long enough to regain his balance, it all hinges on finding me—"

Kintyre's voice trailed off. Yamamura heard the receiver crash down.

Somewhat later his phone rang again. Kintyre said like a machine: "Trig, you can get the official ear quicker than I. Last night Corinna said she'd wait home till I called. I just did. There's no answer."

19
The Phone buzzed. Kintyre snatched it up. "Well?" he cried.

"Trig. Headquarters has just gotten word from San Francisco. Miss Lombardi isn't home. They checked inside with the superintendent's passkey. No trace of a ruckus. Couldn't she simply have gone out?"

"Look," said Kintyre. His vocal chords felt stiff. "This concerned her own family, herself—and O'Hearn, whom she had been forced to slug. I'd promised to call with the latest news. Would you have stepped out, even for a minute?"

"No. Of course, they queried her neighbors, parents, employer, and so forth. At last reports they were still getting nulls."

"Another thing," said Kintyre. "Clayton knew she saw me last night. I mentioned it to him yesterday afternoon!"

It whistled in his receiver. Then: "So you think he picked her up in the hope of finding out exactly where you are and what you know. Isn't that taking quite a risk?"

"For him, it's a greater risk to remain passive," said Kintyre. "Didn't we agree that if necessary he can probably buy a witness to account for a day or so absence? Though if Bruce, Guido, C-c-corinna, and I—Margery—if we've simply been found murdered, he might not even need that. There'll be no evidence to convict him."

"But why should he gamble his own precious hide? Let Silenio and Larkin do this job too."

"No. For one thing, Corinna might have been under protection already—God, if we'd had the brains to request it!"

"Mm, yes, I see. A gangster could ring her doorbell and pull a gun when she opened, and be nabbed the next minute if the police did have a stakeout. Clayton is a friend of her family; she'd invite him in and he could extract the gun in privacy after conversation had established it was safe to do so."

"That's it. Clayton doesn't know what we know. All he's sure of is that somebody has O'Hearn. He's got to find out who."

"Does it matter so much? O'Hearn doesn't know Clayton."

"But he knows Silenio, who does. Now suppose the police do have O'Hearn. They won't get the facts from him in a hurry, so there'll be time to dispose of those of us who Corinna tells Clayton know more than he likes. However, eventually the police will learn a few things, and in Chicago they'll be prepared to arrest Silenio and Larkin for questioning. So he'll have to give Silenio and Larkin a prolonged vacation somewhere, till the whole affair has blown over.

"On the other hand, if I am keeping O'Hearn, I can be expected to get rough. Therefore Clayton and his friends will have to act in an awful hurry. But if they succeed, all will be well for them: because I and any associates of mine will have been eliminated, in the course of rescuing O'Hearn, and no clues at all will be left for the police."

"Games theory," murmured the telephone. "You plan your strategy on the basis of the strategy your opponent would plan on the basis of the information you believe him to have. But this game is for keeps. What do you think we ought to do?"

"Throw out a dragnet, of course," said Kintyre. "As for the news angle, the knowledge we admit having—"

"That's an obvious one. The police can handle it. Though frankly, events will probably move so fast that our news releases won't influence them one way or another. Sorry, Bob, it had to be said.

"One more item. Now that their house is unsafe, have you any idea where they'll go?"

Kintyre groaned. "That's the one thing I can't even guess."

"You've done pretty well so far," said the gentle tone. "Need any help?"

"Yes," said Kintyre. "Get out there and find her."

"I'll do what I can," said Trygve Yamamura.

Kintyre hung up. Guido sat knotted about a kitchen chair. "Well?" he asked raggedly.

"You were listening," said Kintyre. "They've got her. Give me a cigarette."

"My sister," mumbled Guido.

Kintyre barked an obscenity. "Hell of a brother she's got," he said.

He lit up and stalked the kitchen floor. The clock said after eleven. Corinna had been taken—when? Three-plus hours ago, at a guess. But they would have had to find a place to question her. That would give a little time. They could conceivably be en route this minute.

"We're being a pair of prize schtunks," said Guido.

"Hm?" Kintyre threw him a look.

"Sitting here calling each other hard names. I mean, we ought to be out searching for her."

"Where?"

"Any place!" Guido's face was drawn taut; there was a tic over his right eye. "Every address we eliminate is something."

"How many houses in the Bay Area?" Kintyre flopped onto a chair. Through the doors he had locked in himself, the horror hooted.

"Well, for Chrissake, man," said Guido, "I don't mean to search the bishop's! We can think of some possible places, can't we?"

"I don't know."

"Ah, spit. We're doing nobody any good. Let's go for a ride. It might clear our brains some."

"The great American solution. Let's go for a ride."

Guido regarded Kintyre for a moment or so.

"Does it help you to feel superior, cat?" he asked quietly.

Kintyre's head jerked up. After a few seconds:

"Okay. I'll just phone in to let the police know we're going."

They left the cottage and Guido took the wheel of Kintyre's old black sedan. "Any special route, Doc?" he inquired.

"Oh, I don't know. The coast highway, southbound."

"State One? It's a bastardly slow drive beyond the freeway."

"What have we to hurry for?"

Guido slid the car into smooth motion. One-handed, he lit a fresh cigarette. "My solitary trick," he said wryly.

"You sing pretty well," said Kintyre.

"Not as well as I might. That takes work, and I'm not that interested."

"What are you interested in?" Kintyre responded mechanically.

"Right now, getting her back unhurt," said Guido. "Think there's a chance?"

"I thought we were going to clear our brains," rapped Kintyre.

They remained silent past the tollgate. Once they were on the bridge, with the quicksilver sheet of the Bay under them and San Francisco thinly misted ahead, Guido nagged:

"Where could they go? It'd have to be some place nobody would hear them, no cops would come around to. Pretty short notice to rent a house again. I mean, especially when an alarm might go out with their descriptions. Of course, they could just bust into a house offered to let."

"The police will be checking that."

"Uh-huh. Only Doc, wouldn't they expect it and try to outsmart the police? Dig me? Let's turn off at the ramp. I'm a waterfront kid, I know some old places where you could get in and—"

"Would they know about it?" snorted Kintyre.

"I suppose not." Crestfallen, Guido held the car in the middle lane. When they got onto the southbound freeway, he opened up.

Kintyre, a conservative driver, had never pressed his car to the limit. Now he saw the needle hover at ninety; wind snapped by the doors. "You want a ticket?" he asked.

"I don't much care," said Guido roughly. "Man, I got to do something, don't I? If I can't help her, I got to do something."

The minutes passed. No patrol car sirened at them. There was not, indeed, much traffic at this time of a Thursday. As they fled south, onto the old two-lane highway, the sky grew overcast.

"Nuts," said Guido. "There'll be fog along the coast. We'll have to crawl. Let's turn back."

"No," said Kintyre. "Keep going."

Guido stole an indignant look at him. "Wait a second," he began.

"Keep going, I said!" Kintyre roared it.

Guido started. Then, shrugging, he gave his attention back to the road. "Is it that important?" he asked.

Kintyre didn't answer because he didn't know. He sat hunched into passivity, not caring how fast they went or if they crashed. It shouldn't matter to him where he was taken. But it did. He couldn't tell why—damn that fouled subconscious of mine, anyway! But it was like a hand upon him.

Perhaps it was only that he had to get back for a while to the great shouting decency of the ocean.

"You're a funny one, Doc," said Guido after a long time.

"Aren't we all?"

"You're crazy, even for a human being. I mean, you're the cat who's had the adventurous life, got the culture, made the big success—oh, yes, you don't get paid much, but you know damn well how far you've succeeded and how much further you can go—you're everything Bruce wanted to be. Hell, you're everything I wish I wanted to be. And you can't wait to die!"

Kintyre said, jarred: "That isn't true. I'm just in a bad mood."

"So am I, Doc, so am I. Think I dare let myself imagine about Corinna? Think I enjoy realizing how poorly I've shown up in the last few days? But I keep going. What is it makes you fold up?"

Kintyre turned his face from the bluffs now humping up around him, toward Guido. There was a radiation of vitality from the other man; something had disfigured it, so that his days ran out in pettiness, but he would always be more alive than most.

"Why do you stay around here?" asked Kintyre slowly.

"Man, I like it."

"Can't you see it's poison for you? As long as you stay where you were a child, you'll always be one. If you could get away, you'd have a chance to grow up."

Guido reddened. "Thanks, Mother Superior."

"I'm not trying to insult you. I'm only thinking, your trouble could be caused by a situation. A place. Did you get overseas in the Army?"

"No, unless you count Alaska."

"And of course it wasn't your kind of life. All you'd think about would be going home. But suppose you went somewhere else, someplace congenial—and stayed. I wonder if you mightn't feel like buckling down. You could still make a name for yourself, or at least a fair living, as an entertainer. If you'd try."

"Go where?"

"Well, Trig Yamamura has connections in Honolulu. Or via people I know, we could probably finagle a start in New York, if you'd rather. The main point would be, stay away from here! For a few years anyhow, till you got your feet well planted."

Guido said in a low voice: "I've thought the same from time to time. But Bruce was the only one who ever got behind me and pushed, and he didn't have any such contacts."

He smiled. "Could be, Doc, that blue funk of yours is also situational. If I need to get away, maybe you need to settle down. Dig? Pipe, slippers, a wife and a lot of runny-nosed kids to worry about, instead of whatever dead thing it was that happened years ago."

"Let's quit the personal remarks," said Kintyre.

They drove on. The sea came into view, tumbling at the foot of steep yellowish cliffs. It was a cold, etched gray, under a gray sky. There was no clear horizon, sky and water ran together in mist. Guido had to slow down somewhat on the curves, but he managed a dangerous speed. Tires squealed and once he passed another car on a hill and avoided collision only by some inspired steering.

When they had left Berkeley more than an hour behind, he asked: "How far do you want to go, anyway?"

"Go on," said Kintyre.

"How come?"

Kintyre didn't answer.

At Half Moon Bay, the beach was empty and the clustered cabins forlorn; fog had closed in until you could not see past the breakers. It was clammy out there.

"Never liked the coast myself," said Guido. "She did—does, God damn it! She's queer for beach picnics. Likes to play volley ball and make sand castles."

Kintyre unclenched his fists.

"If we don't get her back," said Guido, almost matter-of-factly, "of course I can't leave home. The old lady won't have nobody left but me."

He crammed his foot on the gas. The car spurted ahead. The ground climbed again.

Presently they were on a deserted stretch. The land fell too abruptly to attract visitors: most places had no way down to the water. Sere brown hills lifted on the east side of the highway, trees huddled along them in clumps. The fog came streaming over the road.

"Now what?" said Guido. "It'll be socked in farther south."

"Continue," said Kintyre.

"Like hell!" Mutiny leaped on the dark snub face. "I've gone far enough. How d'you know they don't need us back in town?"

Kintyre felt his muscles congeal.

"What's the matter?" Guido stamped on the brakes. The car skidded to a halt.

Kintyre shuddered. The horror screamed, once, and drained from him. He knew remotely that it was not conquered—not yet—but his disintegrated self had coalesced for at least the time during which all of him would be needed.

He said, hearing his voice like another man's:

"Can you push this car back up to ninety going onward?"

"Huh?"

"I think I know where Corinna is."

Guido's hands slackened on the wheel. Suddenly they tensed again. The car growled from the shoulder and began to accumulate speed.

"I don't want to pile us up," said Guido, "but I guess I could average fifty. Where is she?"

"Do you know Point Perro?"

"I don't believe so."

"It's a little privately owned cove. Not far to go now. It's fenced off, posted, and there's nothing from the road to indicate it even has a beach. You couldn't find a lonelier spot in a day's driving."

Cloven air bawled past the windows. Guido squinted into thickening fog. He could only see a few yards ahead before the gray curtain fell; he had to imagine when the turns were coming up, and take them on two wheels. All at once Kintyre was terrified of an accident.

"I mentioned it to Clayton a couple of days ago," he said. The words came out one by one. "I seem to have forgotten that—down underneath, perhaps, I didn't want to admit to myself I'd given him any help—but I don't think it was coincidence I chose this route. Never mind. Clayton is an Easterner. His time out here has been spent entirely in the respectable sections of the Bay Area. Silenio and Larkin are complete strangers. How would they know where to take her, except some such randomly learned-about spot as this? At least, it's one chance for us. One chance!"

Guido said above the wind, the engine, and the wheels: "If you're right, Doc, it's even a good chance. An Easterner would drive a lot slower than me along this route, especially when they hit the fog. We might catch up to them."

"They've had hours," said Kintyre. "On the other hand, they had to meet each other too, and confer. They're not supermen, they would try to think of something, and argue about their plans, for a long time while they just drove aimlessly, surely not in this direction. We can hope."

"If they've done anything to her," said Guido, his face the mask of flayed Marsyas, "I myself will—"

"You'll let me off at Point Perro," said Kintyre. "Then burn up the motor getting to a phone. Don't waste time on any sheriff's office, call Berkeley headquarters direct. They can call the local authorities for you. It should actually be quicker that way."

"You, though," said Guido. "I can't leave you alone with them."

"Do you want to help Corinna, or do you want to get yourself sliced open for no purpose at all? You're a better driver, so you can get help sooner. I'll have a better chance of delaying matters down in the cove."

"I suppose so." Guido spoke it with difficulty.

"'One must therefore be a fox to recognize traps, and a lion to frighten wolves,'" recited Kintyre in Machiavelli's Italian. "'Those that wish to be only lions do not understand this.'"

Guido laughed shakily. "Modest fellow," he said.

Kintyre would have liked to clap his shoulder, but dared not. They were going seventy miles an hour on a winding road and it was becoming less visible each minute.

"Good for you," he said. "We'll salvage you yet." After another mile: "Or do you even need it any more?"

20
The fog had grown so dense that Kintyre knew his goal only by the car parked at the roadside. "Don't stop!" he cried, the moment it hove into view. "Brake easy. Let me out a hundred yards on." He began to open the door. "The nearest phone I remember is a gas station a few miles farther south. Don't raise your own posse and come back. They'd hear you and might shoot her first. Wait for the police. Good luck."

They rolled softly through a dripping gray swirl. Kintyre stepped from the car. Contact jarred in his feet. Almost, he fell, running alongside it in search of balance. Then the dark wet body slipped from him and was lost. He heard a muffled slam as Guido closed the door, the rising drone of speed, and now just his shoes thudding on pavement.

He stopped himself and jogged back. He was no track star, but he remembered to conserve his wind. The fog was moving with him, its eddies and streamers gave him the nightmare sense of a treadmill bound south. He could see the highway and something of the right-hand cliff that rose up and lost itself overhead. To his left there was nothing, world's edge and smoky endlessness. The air was chill.

Presently he regained the automobile. It was a new model, built for an impression of lowness and width; it sat and bared its teeth between blind headlights like some garish dinosaur defying the glaciers. Judas! Suppose this was only a harmless passer-by? But a signboard told him POINT PERRO, and who else would have come today? Kintyre tried the door. It wasn't locked. He eased it open to read the registration on the steering column.

Gerald R. Clayton. So. Kintyre felt his hands shaking. One more reassurance, before he went down the path. The dashboard thermometer showed the engine still warm. They hadn't been here long.

I do not wish for a God to help me, he thought. But I wish I had one to thank.

He filled his lungs and emptied them, filled and emptied them. Those were dank breaths, but they helped him ease up. He had three armed men to face; if he must also war with himself, it would be hopeless. Not that he felt any great conviction of winning. But—yes. He reached under the dash and yanked loose the ignition wires. After he was dead, that might delay their escape with Corinna.

He climbed the low barbed-wire fence. It guarded a jut of cliff maned with harsh yellow grass. You had to go to its very edge to see that there was a beach underneath. As he approached, he began to hear the surf. Incoming tide: breakers crashed among rocks, the water streamed down again with a roar, whirlpools gurgled in small grottoes. He did not think a human cry would be heard this far above.

When he came to the brink, he could just make out a sketch of jumbled crags and a laciness on the bull combers; then the rifted mist hid the sea from him again. There would be a highness to either side, the arms enclosing this inlet, but those were lost in the gray. He walked cautiously until he saw the path, a goat track plunging downward.

Its dirt was gritty under his feet. Despite himself, he loosed gravel showers now and again. After each he stopped, crouching and listening for voices. There were none: only the surf, snorting more loudly every time. The fog was his friend, could he have approached without it? Yes, he'd have found a way somehow, swum around a headland if he must, but the fog helped him. No proof of supernatural assistance, of course; this was a notoriously wet stretch of coast; however, he was advantaged thereby.

At the cliff's foot he stood among half-seen boulders and considered where his enemy might be. Not more than a hundred yards from him, but he had perhaps fifty feet of unclear vision. This pea soup was thickening by the minute. If the others arrived, say, twenty minutes ago, they would have been granted better visibility, could have selected a spot. Kintyre stretched his memory. The cliffs made a semicircular wall, with driftwood and great stones at its foot; the diameter was a narrow strip of sand, paralleled by a line of rocks. These latter were below high-water mark and would be drenched already. Kintyre could just glimpse the sleet-colored ocean breasting them. Okay. So his quarry was under the cliff. Was there some way to lure one of them out?

An idea came. It was hazardous, but no more so than blundering blind. And he was not afraid of what might happen to him. In a certain way, he had been given another chance to rescue Morna; he could not but take it.

Crouching in the rocks, he started to cough, as much like a sea lion's bark as he could manage. It was a bad imitation, but he dealt with pavement people. The noise went deep, wet, and ringing among the breakers.

"What's that?"

From the right! Kintyre fell on his stomach and began to eel his way over the rocks.

"A gahdam seal yet." Larkin's youthful whine. "Holy Moses, what a spot!"

"Better go see." It was an unfamiliar bass. Silenio.

"Ah, nuts, you go."

"You heard me, Terry," said Silenio.

"The girl knows this coast," said Clayton. Kintyre flowed over a bleached white tree trunk. It snagged his shirt, he had to stop and fumble for his liberty. And the fog talked and talked.

"It's just a seal, isn't it, Miss Lombardi?"

No answer.

"Silenio," said Clayton.

A tearing gasp: "Let go, you'll break my arm, let go!"

"I'm sorry to have to do this, Miss Lombardi," said Clayton. "But now that we've gotten settled here, such things will happen pretty continuously. Unless you cooperate. So to start with—that was a seal we heard barking, wasn't it?"

"Yes. Oh!"

"Go look, Terry," said Silenio.

Kintyre put his ear to the stones. He heard them rattle. If he could intercept Larkin, get him from behind without any noise....

He tried to judge whence the footsteps came. There were no more voices, no sound at all except Larkin and the sea. Kintyre followed, bent nearly double.

When he saw the vague shape, he changed course to intercept. Larkin was little more than a trench coat and a hat, fog-blurred. He was making no attempt to be silent, he slipped and stumbled, but his progress was quick. Kintyre decided he was going to get away, rose and sprinted the last few yards.

Larkin heard the hunter. He turned. "What—" Kintyre hit him. They went down together. Kintyre tried to get an arm around Larkin's throat. He didn't quite manage it. Larkin screamed.

That was a lost cause already. Kintyre wriggled free of threshing arms and legs, rolled away and bounded to his feet. Larkin was crawling to hands and knees. His face was a white blob with holes for eyes and mouth. He continued to scream.

Kintyre fled toward the sand. He heard Silenio curse. "What is it? What's going on out there?"

"It's a raid!" bawled Larkin. He reeled erect, the switchblade in one hand.

"Get back here!" said Silenio.

Kintyre whirled and threw himself prone. The sand was hard against his stomach. He could make out Larkin at the very edge of visibility, head weaving around. "Where did he go?" Larkin was crying. "Where is he?"

"Get back, I said, back here before I start shooting!" yelled Silenio.

Larkin groped a way toward the bodiless voice. Kintyre went on hands and feet this time, a quadruped rush. Larkin heard something and looked behind him. Kintyre went flat, simultaneously. Larkin faced back toward the cliff and resumed. Kintyre came after him again.

Three feet away, Kintyre stood up and leaped.

Larkin could not miss that. He spun on one heel, his knife already slicing. Kintyre moved in, presenting his left side, staying just out of reach. Larkin stepped forward. He was wary on the uncertain footing, too wary to be thrown hard. Kintyre feinted a blow with his left hand. Larkin slipped aside to avoid it. That took some of the rattlesnake speed off his striking blade. Kintyre's right hand chopped down, edge on, as he bent at the waist. The steel went half an inch past his belly. His hand connected with the arm behind. In that awkward stance it was not a blow of the real bone-cracking force, but Larkin moaned and went down on one knee.

Kintyre kicked at his neck. Larkin lowered his head and took the impact on the skull. This boy was good! It threw him onto his back, though. Kintyre circled for an opening. Larkin sat up, poised the knife in one hand, and threw it.

Kintyre felt a dull blow in his left biceps. He stared down. The knife stood in the muscle, blood was a red shout against skin and cloth. Larkin scrambled to his feet and pelted in the direction of Silenio's cries.

Kintyre knew little shock. Coolness at such moments was normal; he even had time to think that. The blood was simply oozing around the steel, no important vessel had been cut. He went after Larkin.

The boy slipped on a wet rock. There were shadows ahead, Clayton's lair? Kintyre sprang for him. To hell with defensive judo. Larkin had just gotten up. He heard the feet which followed, turned around and lifted his hands. "Help!" he shrieked.

"I'm coming!" cried Silenio in the gray.

Larkin flung himself into a clinch. His arms wrapped around Kintyre's waist with astonishing strength. Automatically, Kintyre's right arm went up to jam into his larynx. But Larkin's chin was down, guarding the throat. His right hand let go and reached after the knife in Kintyre's flesh.

Kintyre pressed a thumb into the boy's jugular. Larkin choked and pulled himself free. The knife came with him, in his grasp; blood runneled from the metal. He stepped in to rip. Kintyre's right hand traveled up. The heel of it struck Larkin at the root of the nose.

Larkin gurgled and flopped backward. His face was no longer quite human: the blow had driven his nasal bone into the brain. So much for him.

Silenio burst from cold clouds. He was a squat balding man with a round blue-cheeked face. There was an automatic in his hand. He looked a fractional second upon Kintyre and the body. Then he fired.

Kintyre was already running. He didn't hear the bullets, or even the ricochets, only the flat smack! smack! smack! as the gun went off behind him. He crouched low, zigzagging a little. A pistol is not a very accurate weapon. When he felt sand under his feet again, he looked back. Nothing but fog. He heard Clayton and Silenio calling to each other.

He glanced down at his wounded arm. It bled merrily. He flexed the fingers, tested their resistance to pressure: good, nothing had been severed which a few stitches wouldn't heal. But until he got the stitches, if ever, he had an arm and a half at best.

And Clayton and Silenio were still holding Corinna. It wouldn't take them long to think of making a hostage of her.

Kintyre hurried to the base of the cliff and went along it as quietly as he could. A weapon, how about throwing stones, no, they all seemed too large or too small. Bare hands were limited by the reach of an arm. Passing a log, he stopped to feel after clubs. He found a broken-off branch, four feet long and not very crooked. It had a narrow end, almost a point. Salt water and weather had turned it bone-white, iron-hard.

Kintyre followed the cliff. When he heard them talking again, he went with his back flat against it. Total silence would be his one chance, when he got into seeing range; they mightn't look his way.

They sat behind a log, a yard or two from the precipice. Clayton was huddled into a topcoat, hands in pockets, squatting wretchedly on a flat boulder. Silenio stood up, sentrylike, the gun in his hand.

Corinna sat facing Clayton. Her arms were free; a rope lashed her ankles. The long hair was heavy with dampness. She didn't seem to have been injured yet, except for that one short episode—

"It could only have been Kintyre," Clayton was saying. "And alone. Otherwise this beach would be solid with police."

"He may have the whole force on its way here," grumbled Silenio.

"That's possible. I think we had better get going. But remember, it's a single man. If you can nail him, we're safe."

Clayton stooped and began to untie Corinna. "I'm sorry about this," he said.

"Like hell you are!" she spat. Even now, Kintyre must grin at her rage, it was so much Corinna.

"As you like," shrugged Clayton.

"Why are you doing this?" she asked, almost with wonder.

Sudden pain sharpened Clayton's voice: "I've got three children. They'd be dragged down with me. The mud would stick to them all their lives. No!"

Kintyre glided forward. Corinna spied him over Clayton's shoulder. Through the watery air he saw her lips part. She cocked her head and looked out at sea. "What was that?" she exclaimed.

Clayton and Silenio turned wholly from Kintyre. He made the last few yards in a rush.

Silenio whipped around. Kintyre was almost upon him. He raised the gun. Kintyre thrust with his stick. It was ill-balanced, but he had fenced for many years. He got Silenio's hand and knocked it around. The gun went off with a crack; stone and lead spurted. Kintyre jabbed Silenio in the stomach. Silenio fell to his knees. He still had the gun. Kintyre snapped the point of his stick to the back of his enemy's hand and bore down. Bones parted; the stick went through, into the sand.

Silenio howled and tried to pull it loose. From the edge of his eye, Kintyre glimpsed Clayton's bulky frame launched at him. He let go the stick and caught an extended arm. He heaved Clayton over his shoulder and onto the rocks.

Silenio freed himself and scrabbled for the automatic. Kintyre put his foot on it. Silenio rose and threw himself at his opponent. The weight struck Kintyre's left biceps. Agony went like lightning. He staggered back, holding the arm.

The man from Chicago laughed. He picked up the gun, awkwardly left-handed, and fired.

And missed. Kintyre recovered himself, moving in again. Another shot went off nearly in his face. Another miss. There wouldn't be a third, he knew. He snatched up the stick. Silenio backed off, grinning with hatred. He steadied his left hand with the wounded right and took careful aim.

Kintyre lunged. It was a swordsman's movement, more leap than stride, with all his mass behind it. He took Silenio in the throat.

Silenio dropped the gun, clawed at the stick, and began to fold up. He tried to call out, but could only say blood. He sat down in a dazed way, plucked at his neck, and bled to death.

Kintyre had no time to notice it. He saw Clayton coming back. It did not seem possible Clayton could still move; the left side of his face was one giant bruise, the cheek flayed. Kintyre groped after the gun. Where was it?

Clayton advanced with a rush. He fell the last six feet. Raising his head and his arm, he showed metal in the hand. "Got it!" he said.

Kintyre pounced on him. They rolled over, kneeing and gouging. Clayton hammered a fist on Kintyre's hurt. The grasp on him loosened. Clayton writhed free, got up and ran. The fog whirled him from sight.

Kintyre pulled himself to hands and knees. Blood dripped from his wounds, bright little puddles formed on the ice-gray stones. His head tolled.

Hands fell gently upon him. He sat back, leaning into the circle of her arms. Her hair brushed his face. "You came," she said.

"Are you hurt?" he asked.

"No. There wasn't time. Oh, your poor arm!"

"Can you make some kind of bandage for it? My tee shirt will do."

"It isn't sterile. No, there are antibiotics these days, thank God for that." She pulled the garment over his head, sawed the seams across on an edged stone, and ripped it up. He noticed that her dress was gray. When she looked directly at him, her eyes and blonde hair were the only color in his world.

"Thank God for you," she added.

Her hands were deft, fashioning a compress and binding it in place. He kept his head toward the sea, listening. "What is it?" she asked.

"Clayton. Where did he go?"

"Wouldn't he try to escape?"

"If so, fine. I sabotaged his car. Or even if he gets it going, he'll never make it out of this state. But I'm afraid he realizes as much himself."

She knelt behind him, where he sat on the ground regaining his breath, and laid a hand in his hair. She asked steadily: "What will he do?"

"In his place," said Kintyre, "I'd come back and kill us. He should have done that when he broke free of me, he had the gun. But of course he was half stunned. Now that he's had a little time to think the situation over—yes. If he got rid of us, there'd be no witnesses to prove he hadn't also been kidnaped and was the single fortunate survivor. The kind of lawyers he can afford would have at least a chance to brazen out that yarn."

He stood up. "Fade back along the cliff, away from the path," he said. "Find yourself a sheltered spot and hunker down in it. If you need help, scream."

"You?" For the first time he heard fear. She stood up, and trembled.

"As I said, he has a gun and he will probably be stalking us, if he hasn't started yet," Kintyre answered. "I'd better forestall that."

She considered him with a somehow old look.

"All right," she said. "There is no other way. Christ guard you."

She reached up and kissed him, a brief light contact, and walked away.

Kintyre stood thinking of a certain letter. It had been written by Machiavelli from the farm at San Casciano, after he had gone there disgraced, tortured, and exiled, with all his work fallen, to dust. He wrote a friend:

"All my life I have behaved as I chose in love affairs. I let love do as it likes with me, I have followed it over hill and over vale, through fields, through woods, and after all I think I have done better than if I had avoided it."

You needed a certain courage to be happy.

Kintyre turned and went toward the path. It was a starting point for his search; Clayton's instinct would have been to bolt. He made no effort to be still. A snap shot in the fog wouldn't hit him, except by chance, and his racket would draw attention from Corinna.

Nevertheless, when the fire came, it was shocking. From the sea!

Kintyre whirled and padded toward the water. Clayton must have thought to circumvent him, wade out and around till he struck the cliff. Or perhaps he figured to hide among the rocks and—No matter. It was necessary to get him.

The tide was coming in heavily now. Kintyre saw how the sand gleamed, even in this sunless air, and then how it was whelmed in foam. Spray beat his face; he heard a hollow sucking roar among the stones. Where was Clayton?

Out in the surf, it tongued flame. He saw the beach furrowed beside him. So—crouched on a rock, approachable only through the water! Kintyre ran along the shore, trying to get out of visual range before a bullet smote him. The pursuing shots had a muffled sound.

He entered the water. It was savagely cold. It pulled at his ankles, sand shifted under the tidal drag. How deep was it where Clayton laired? Not over a man's height: Clayton was planning to get Corinna also, he'd have to come back ashore without wetting his gun too much. Not that a brief soak would disable a well-oiled automatic. But he would first lure Kintyre to him, if he could. A man struggling through chest-deep turbulence ought to make an easy target.

Kintyre strained eyes into the fog. He could just see the fortress rock as a shadow, fifteen feet high at the peak, forty feet long, Gibraltar-shaped. Breakers hurled against its seaward flank. This was a rapidly sloping bottom. The depth on Clayton's side was hardly over four feet, but it might be ten at the western end of the rock.

Kintyre waded straight out until a wave hit him in the face. He kicked off his shoes and swam.

His bad arm gave him saw-toothed pain and reddened the water. He used his right, a side stroke. The undertow grabbed him and yanked him outward. He wrestled to stay afloat. A comber went over him. Briefly he was in a remembered darkness.

He drank salt fear, threshed to the wave's top, and spun down into the trough behind it. A chill seething had him. It bawled in his ears. He knew himself empty of strength and hope.

The sea battered itself upon the earth, recoiled, laughed, and reared back to gallop in again. It was like the beating of a maul. A ship, a man, a girl could be crunched between wave and stone until ribs broke across. Kintyre strangled in a noisy wild night. He was spewed up again for a moment, scornfully. Spray sheeted in his face. The cold drained him, he could feel how warmth ran out. The sea rolled him over and toned in his skull.

Somehow you could swim, he thought. It was only to keep going. Though all the world were smashed on a reef, you could keep going. And there could be victory.

He saw the rock face shine before him. The waves pounded him against its roughness. Fog smoked in his eyes. He let the sea upbear him, and took its anger, while he fumbled about. His fingers closed on something, a handhold. His toes sought beneath the surface.

He pulled himself out.

For a little while he lay on the sloping stone back. The tide covered his feet. Life returned in some measure. He sighed and began to climb.

At the peak he looked over. Clayton sat on a small ledge, four sheer yards below him. The ruddy hair hung dark, there was blood matting one side of the long narrow head. Clayton's gun wove about in a seeking fashion, aimed toward shore and then down again. Once he jerked, making an odd little whimper like a lost child, and fired. The sound was flat, nearly lost among rumbling tides.

A twelve-foot jump could easily miss that tiny projection—and once fallen into the water below, Kintyre would be Clayton's. But so he would be if he tried to crawl down.

He made his estimates, poised, and sprang.

His feet struck Clayton between the shoulders. They went over together. It spouted where they hit. A wave swung in from the ocean and climbed the rock in one white burst.

Kintyre came up. He stood in four feet of water. Clayton was just arising. Somehow, incredibly, he still had the gun. It lifted, at point-blank range.

Kintyre's left arm found the power to chop down. The gun was knocked loose. The sea ate it. Kintyre laid his good hand upon Clayton. Enough.

Miss Susan Baird let her gaze rest on her companion in speculative silence. Apparently, her last jibe had failed of its mark, judging from the man’s unchanged expression. With a vexed sigh she proceeded to pour out another cup of tea.

They were an oddly matched pair. Miss Baird, still erect in spite of her seventy years, her small slight figure tucked into one corner of the carved, throne-shaped chair which was her habitual seat when in her library, appeared dwarfed in comparison with the broad-shouldered, powerfully built man who faced her across the tea table.

"So you wish to marry my niece, Kitty," she remarked. "You!" And she broke into shrill laughter.

[Pg 2]

Her companion flushed hotly. Her ridicule cut deeper than had any of her previous comments.

"I intend to marry her," he answered, and the stubborn determination of his tone matched his set features.

"So!" Miss Baird shrugged her thin shoulders. "You forget, my friend, that until Kitty is twenty-five years of age, I am her legal guardian, and that she is absolutely dependent upon me."

"You give her a home and let her work that she may contribute to your support," he retorted.

At his words her eyes blazed in fury and her talonlike fingers fumbled in the silver bowl for the few pieces of sugar it contained.

"I am her only blood relation. It is fitting and proper that she aid me in my old age," she exclaimed. "My poverty," she paused, and a certain dignity crept into both voice and manner, "is my misfortune."

"And Kitty," he began, but got no further.

"We will not discuss Kitty," she announced with finality. "Wait," as he started to interrupt her. "Such discussion is totally unnecessary, for Kitty will never marry you."

"Why not?"

"For two excellent reasons." She spoke with deliberation. "Kitty shall not marry a poor man, nor shall she marry a man with an hereditary taint."

[Pg 3]

The man regarded her steadfastly across the table, his strong capable hands still holding the peach which he had been peeling. The silence lengthened, but neither seemed inclined to break it. Suddenly, the man laid down the peach and taking out his handkerchief, passed it across his lips; then, still in silence, he picked up the fruit knife, cut the peach in two and, placing the fruit in front of Miss Baird, rose and left the library.

In the outer hall he paused long enough to pick up his hat and gloves from the table where he had placed them upon his arrival some time before. He had opened the front door and was about to step outside when it occurred to him to light a cigarette. To do so, he released his hold on the front door. His cigarette was just commencing to draw nicely when a current of air from an opened window across the hall blew the door, which he had left ajar, shut with a resounding bang.

As the noise vibrated through the silent house, the man glanced nervously over his shoulder. Evidently, it had not disturbed Miss Baird or the other inmates of her household, for no one appeared in the hall. He once more started to approach the front door when he heard, through the portières in front of the entrance to the library, Miss Baird’s voice raised in anger.

[Pg 4]

"Kitty!" she called. "Kitty!"

As the name echoed through the silent hall, it gave place to a scream of such intensity, such horror that the man drew back aghast. It was some minutes before he moved. With faltering footsteps he retraced his way into the library and paused by the tea table.

Miss Susan Baird still sat in her throne-shaped chair, but the light fell full on her glazing eyes and distorted features.

Slowly, reluctantly, the man bent nearer and forced himself to place his hand upon her wrist. He could feel no pulse. When he stood erect a moment later, his forehead was beaded with perspiration. Dazedly, he glanced about the library—he and the dead woman were its only occupants.

Again he compelled himself to gaze at her, and subconsciously took note of her poor and patched attire. The incongruity of her string of pearls and the diamond rings upon her fingers impressed him even in the presence of death.

Step by step he retreated backward across the room, his glance roaming upward toward the gallery which circled the library and the short staircase leading to it, but always his eyes returned to that still and lonely figure by the tea table.

A few minutes later the faint sound of the front door being closed disturbed a large ball of fur. A [Pg 5]gray Angora cat jumped from its hiding place and, with its back arched in fright, scampered through the portières, and fled along the hall and up the staircase to the attic.

[Pg 6]

CHAPTER II
THE SUMMONS
The broad streets of Washington City presented a lively scene as Dr. Leonard McLean drove his car with increasing slowness down Connecticut Avenue, crowded with government employees hastening to their offices. The congestion was even greater than usual owing to the downpour of rain as the drenched pedestrians swarmed around the street car stops in their endeavor to board cars, already packed to their limit, and arrive promptly at nine o’clock at their various destinations.

McLean slowed down to a stop within the fifteen feet limit prescribed by law, as the street car ahead of him halted to take on passengers, and watched with interest the futile efforts of the conductor to prevent the desperate rush made by both men and women to get through the car door at the same time. Suddenly, McLean discerned a familiar face in the [Pg 7]crowd before him and sounded his horn. The unexpected "honk" created confusion among those unable to find even clinging room, and the conductor, taking advantage of the diversion, signaled to the motorman and the car sped onward.

"Hey, Leigh!" hailed McLean. "Leigh Wallace!"

Major Wallace glanced around and with a wave of his hand McLean indicated the vacant seat in his roadster.

"Hop in!" he exclaimed, as Wallace hurried across the intervening space between the car and the curbstone. "I’ll give you a lift downtown," and, hardly waiting for Wallace to seat himself and close the door, the busy surgeon released the clutch and the roadster sped down Connecticut Avenue.

It was not until they were clear of traffic and were approaching the intersection of Twenty-first Street and Massachusetts Avenue that McLean realized his companion had not returned his greeting or addressed a word to him since entering the car. Turning his head, he eyed him unobtrusively. Wallace sat moodily staring ahead; his big frame, slumped in the easiest posture, seemed to fill the broad seat of the Packard. McLean took silent note of Wallace’s expression and the unhealthy pallor of his skin.

"Get any sleep last night?" he asked.

"Not much." Wallace drew out a leather wallet [Pg 8]from an inside pocket and produced a prescription. "The druggist refused to fill this again; said I had to get another prescription. Beastly rot," he complained. "Cost me a bad night."

The surgeon ran his eye over the prescription before pocketing it.

"It’s a narcotic," he explained. "The druggists are not allowed to refill. Next time you want one come to me. How long is it since you left Walter Reed Hospital, Leigh?"

"Two months ago," was the laconic rejoinder. Wallace removed his hat and passed his hand over his short-clipped hair. "I hope to report for duty soon."

"Good!" McLean slowed down to make the turn from Twenty-first Street into Massachusetts Avenue and as they drove westward Major Wallace for the first time took notice of the direction in which they were heading and that they were no longer on Connecticut Avenue.

"Aren’t you going to your office, McLean?" he inquired.

"Not immediately. I have a professional call to make first. Are you in a hurry?"

The question seemed superfluous and McLean smiled as he put it. The major’s apathetic manner and relaxed figure could not be associated with haste.

[Pg 9]

"No," Wallace answered. "I promised to stop in and see Charles Craige some time this morning; he’s attending to some legal business for me. Otherwise I have nothing to do. This killing time gets on my nerves—look at that, now," and he held up a hand that was not quite steady. "Take me on as chauffeur, McLean. I understand an engine; shell-shock hasn’t knocked that out of my head."

"Your head’s all right, old man. I told you that when you were my patient at Walter Reed," responded McLean cheerily. "A few weeks more and—" He stopped speaking as they crossed the Q Street bridge into Georgetown, then, stepping on the accelerator, he raced the car up the steeply graded street and drew up in front of a high terrace.

"Hello, are you going to ‘Rose Hill’?" demanded Wallace, wakened from his lethargy by the stopping of the car. He had apparently been unaware that McLean had left his last sentence unfinished. "Who is ill?"

"I don’t know." McLean leaned back to pick up his instrument bag which he carried in the compartment behind his seat. "My servant called to me just as I was leaving home that I had been telephoned to come over here at once. I didn’t catch all she said. I suppose Kitty Baird is ill. That girl is a bundle of nerves."

Wallace clambered out of the car so that his more [Pg 10]nimble companion would not have to climb over his long legs in getting out. As McLean turned to close the door of his car, Wallace’s hand descended heavily upon his shoulder.

"What—who—who’s that standing in the Baird’s doorway?" he gasped. "A policeman?"

McLean swung around and glanced up at the house. A long flight of stone steps led up to the front door and a landing marked each break in the terrace whereon grew rosebushes. It was the picturesque garden which gave its name to the fine old mansion—Rose Hill. The mansion had been built in colonial times when the surrounding land, on which stood modern houses and the present-day streets, had been part of the "plantation" owned by General Josiah Baird of Revolutionary fame. The hand of progress had left the mansion perched high above the graded street, but it had not touched its fine air of repose, nor diminished the beauty of its classic Greek architecture.

Standing under the fanlight over the doorway was the burly form of a blue-coated policeman.

"Yes, that’s one of the ‘City’s finest,’" he laughed. "What of it?" he added, observing his companion’s agitation in astonishment. "The policeman is probably taking the census; one called on me last Saturday."

[Pg 11]

Wallace swallowed hard. "That’s it," he mumbled, rather than spoke. "You’ve hit it."

McLean, conscious of the bleak wind which accompanied the driving rain, stopped to open the door of his roadster.

"Wait in the car, Leigh; I won’t be long." Not pausing to see if his suggestion was followed, McLean hurried up the steps.

Wallace plucked at the collar of his overcoat and opened it with nervous fingers, mechanically closed the car door, and then with slow reluctant feet followed McLean toward the mansion. He was breathing heavily when he gained the surgeon’s side, and the latter’s surprised exclamation at sight of him was checked by the policeman who had advanced a few steps to meet the two men.

"Dr. McLean?" he asked, and as the surgeon nodded, added, "Step inside, Sir." He touched his hat respectfully. "Is this gentleman with you, Doctor?"

"Why, certainly." McLean glanced inquiringly at the policeman; the latter’s manner indicated suppressed excitement. "What’s to pay, Officer?"

"They’ll tell you inside," waving his hand toward the open door. "The coroner’s there."

"Coroner!" McLean’s bag nearly slipped from his hand; but before he could question the policeman further, his name was called from the back of the [Pg 12]hall and he hurried inside the house. Coroner Penfield stood by the portières in front of the library door.

"I am glad you could get here so promptly, McLean," he said. "Come in," and he drew the portières to one side. McLean entered the library hastily and continued to advance with his usual brisk tread until he caught sight of a huddled figure in the throne-shaped chair.

"Good God!" he ejaculated and retreated a few steps. Recovering his usual calm poise he walked around the tea table and examined the body. When he straightened up and turned around, he found Coroner Penfield’s attention was centered on Major Leigh Wallace.

Wallace had followed McLean across the threshold of the library only, and stood with his back braced against the doorjamb while his eyes mutely scrutinized every movement made by the surgeon.

"Well?" he questioned, and McLean’s stare grew intensified. If he had not seen Wallace’s lips move he would never have recognized his voice. With difficulty Wallace enunciated his words. "Well—what—what is it?"

"It’s a case of—"

"Sudden death." Coroner Penfield completed McLean’s sentence.

In the silence that followed, a man who had been [Pg 13]leaning over the railing of the gallery which circled the library, watching them, walked over to the stairs and came slowly down. At sound of his footsteps McLean glanced up and recognized Inspector Mitchell of the Central Office. He bowed courteously to the surgeon before addressing the coroner.

"If it is all right, Dr. Penfield, we’ll have the body removed," he said. "My men are here."

"Certainly. Call them." Penfield turned to McLean. "I wanted you to be present as I understand you attended Miss Susan Baird."

"Yes, I have been her family physician for years." McLean spoke with an effort, his thoughts centered on one idea. "Where is Miss Baird’s niece, Miss Kitty Baird?"

His question went unanswered. Apparently Coroner Penfield and Inspector Mitchell failed to hear him as they busied themselves in superintending the removal of the body. McLean, after watching them for some seconds, walked over to Wallace. The latter took no notice of him whatever, his eyes remaining always on the tea table. McLean scanned his drawn face and listened to his labored breathing with growing concern. Whirling around, he opened his bag, took out a flask, detached its silver cup and poured out a liberal allowance of whisky, then, darting out of the library, he returned an instant later with some water in a glass. Slightly diluting the [Pg 14]whisky, he thrust the cup against Wallace’s white lips.

"Drink that," he ordered, and Wallace followed his peremptory command. "Now, sit down," and he half-pushed, half-supported him to a large leather covered lounge.

"I—I," protested Wallace. "I’m a bit undone, McLean," and he raised miserable, apologetic eyes to his friend.

"Sure, it’s enough to bowl any one over," McLean acknowledged, with a sympathetic pat. "Even the strongest—"

"Which I am not," supplemented Wallace. The powerful stimulant was taking effect, and he spoke with more composure. "Have you—can you—" he hesitated, and cast a sidelong glance at McLean. "Can you learn any details about Miss Baird and how she came to be lying in that chair?" It was impossible for him to suppress a shudder as he indicated the empty throne-shaped chair. "She was dead, wasn’t she?"

"As dead as a door nail." His question was answered by Inspector Mitchell, who had returned in time to catch their last few remarks. "Can you give me any facts about Miss Baird, Doctor McLean?"

"Only that she was a lifelong resident of Georgetown and a well-known character—known for her [Pg 15]eccentricities, that is," responded McLean. "Her death has come as a great shock to Major Wallace and to me, Inspector."

"When did you see her last?" inquired Mitchell. His question was addressed to both men, but it was McLean who answered it after a moment’s thought.

"She was in my office on Friday."

"Was she ill?"

"No. For a woman of her age she was remarkably free from organic trouble," replied McLean. "In fact, she did not come to consult me about herself at all, but to ask for a tonic for her niece. By the way, where is Miss Kitty Baird?"

At the question Wallace raised his head and eyed the surgeon intently for a second, then dropped his eyes as the other felt his gaze and turned toward him.

"Where is Miss Kitty Baird?" Mitchell repeated the surgeon’s question. "Blessed if I know."

"What!" McLean started from the chair where he had seated himself a moment before. "Do you mean to say that Miss Kitty Baird is not in her bedroom?"

"I do." Mitchell shook a puzzled head. "And she isn’t in any part of the house. My men and I have searched it thoroughly. We found only the dead woman in the house and a live Angora cat."

McLean stared at the inspector in dumbfounded [Pg 16]amazement. A gurgling sound from the sofa caused him to look at Wallace. The major, with purpling face, was struggling to undo his collar.

"Air! Air!" he gasped, and before the surgeon could spring to his aid, he sank back unconscious against the sofa pillows.

[Pg 17]

CHAPTER III
DETAILS
Inspector Mitchell and Dr. McLean watched the taxicab, in which rode Major Leigh Wallace and Coroner Penfield, until it passed out of sight on its way to Washington, before reentering the Baird mansion.

"Major Wallace seems in bad shape," commented Mitchell, as they crossed the hall toward the library. "I thought you would never bring him back to consciousness, Doctor."

"This library wasn’t a pleasant sight for well man to encounter, Mitchell, let alone a man in the major’s condition," replied McLean. "The results of shell-shock do not exactly prepare a man for this—" and with a wave of his hand the surgeon indicated the tea table and the throne-shaped chair where Miss Baird’s body had lain on their entrance three quarters of an hour before.

"Eh, yes; but I should have thought the major’s [Pg 18]experiences overseas would have accustomed him to gruesome scenes." Mitchell paused in front of the portières and adjusted them carefully so that they completely covered the doorway.

"Walking into a room and finding a friend lying dead is a shock, regardless of any past experience," responded McLean dryly.

"Did Major Wallace know Miss Baird well?" inquired Mitchell.

"Know her well?" repeated McLean. "Yes, and her niece, Kitty Baird, even better, if rumor speaks truly."

A certain inflection in the surgeon’s voice caused Mitchell to eye him sharply, but McLean’s attention was entirely centered on the tea table before which he was standing, and he appeared unaware of the inspector’s scrutiny.

"Exactly what do you mean, Doctor?" asked the latter. "Your words would imply—"

"Nothing—except that rumor has it that Leigh Wallace and Kitty Baird are engaged to be married." McLean balanced one hand on a chair and tipped it back and forth.

"And what is your personal opinion, Doctor?" asked Mitchell shrewdly.

McLean hesitated. "I am not quite so certain," he admitted. "Three months ago I believed Wallace and Kitty were engaged; then—"

[Pg 19]

"Yes?—" as McLean paused once more in his speech.

"Then Kitty met Edward Rodgers of San Francisco," McLean smiled. "It’s a toss-up which man wins."

"So." The inspector considered a moment. "So Miss Baird is still willing to take a chance on marrying Major Wallace, is she?"

"What d’ye mean?" McLean’s abstracted manner disappeared instantly.

"Well, I wouldn’t exactly like my daughter to marry him," retorted Mitchell. "Not after seeing his condition here to-day. I haven’t much medical knowledge—"

"Quite so." The surgeon’s dry tone caused Mitchell to redden. "I can assure you, Mitchell, that Major Wallace’s ill-health is but temporary."

"Is it?" Mitchell eyed him reflectively, then as an idea occurred to him his expression altered. "By Jove! Perhaps it wasn’t the sight of Miss Baird lying there dead which knocked him out, but the absence of her niece, Miss Kitty Baird."

McLean let the chair, which he had been balancing on two legs, go slowly back to its proper position.

"It is just possible that you are right," he agreed. "Kitty Baird’s absence has alarmed me also."

"Is that so? You kept mighty calm about it," [Pg 20]grumbled Mitchell. McLean was not evincing much interest. "Possibly you don’t realize that Miss Baird did not die a natural death."

McLean smiled ironically. "You pay me a poor compliment," he said. "I only made a superficial examination of her body, but it assured me that a—" he hesitated for a brief second, "that a tragedy had occurred."

"Tragedy!" In fine scorn. "Why mince words? Say murder."

"No." McLean spoke with provoking deliberation. "Suicide."

"Suicide!" echoed the inspector. "Bah! Look at this room."

Obediently McLean glanced about the library. It was a large room, almost square in shape, two stories in height with an arched roof containing a stained glass skylight. It was paneled in Flemish oak; and oak bookcases, with sliding glass doors, filled most of the wall space, while a gallery, on a level with the second story, circled the library. Access to the gallery was gained from the library by a flight of circular steps near the huge brick chimney which stood at the farther end of the room. Bookcases, similar in type to those on the main floor of the library, were in the gallery, and McLean scarcely glanced upward; instead, his eyes roved over the worn furniture with its shabby upholstery, the faded [Pg 21]rugs on the hardwood floor, until finally his gaze rested on the tea table. Given to observation of little things, he noticed the spotless condition of the tea cloth and the neat darns in one corner. Inspector Mitchell observed his silent contemplation of the tea table.

"Evidently Miss Baird was enjoying a cup of tea," he remarked. "See, her cup is half full."

"Have you analyzed its contents?" asked McLean.

"Not yet." Mitchell moved impatiently. "Give us time, Doctor. It won’t take long to locate the criminal. He is sure to have left a clue behind him among the tea things."

"You will insist on murder!" McLean shrugged his shoulders. "I see only one cup of tea," pointing to the table. "A teapot—is it empty?" He stretched out his hand to pick it up, but Mitchell checked him with an imperative gesture.

"Don’t handle anything, Sir," he cautioned. "We are making tests for finger prints."

"Quite right." McLean’s hand dropped to his side. "Well, murder presupposes the presence of some one beside the victim. I see only one teacup, one plate with two sandwiches and a piece of cake, another plate with a half-eaten peach. Not a very bountiful repast. Now, while Miss Baird was poor, she was hospitable, inspector; had any one been here, [Pg 22]her visitor would have been provided with a cup of tea at least."

"Perhaps—but suppose she wasn’t aware of the, er, visitor’s presence?" asked Mitchell.

McLean eyed him in silence for a second. "Have you found any indication of another’s presence?" he questioned. "Any clues?"

"Nothing worth mentioning now," responded Mitchell, evasively. "Can you give me the name of an intimate friend to whom Miss Baird may have gone?"

"Why, certainly; there’s—let me see—" McLean pulled himself up short. Who were Kitty Baird’s intimate friends—her girl friends? He could enumerate dozens of men whose admiration for her was sincere and unconcealed, but when it came to the girls in their set—pshaw! women were cats! Kitty’s popularity had not endeared her to her own sex.

"You might try Mrs. Amos Parsons," he suggested, and pointed to the telephone table in a corner of the library. "Kitty is her private secretary. No, wait," as Mitchell snatched up the telephone book and hastily turned its well-thumbed pages. "She may be with her cousins, Mr. and Mrs. Ben Potter. Here, I’ll look up their number for you."

Mitchell hung up the receiver in disgust a minute later. "Central declares no one answers," he explained. "Who shall we try next? Mrs. Parsons, [Pg 23]did you say?" This time he was more successful in getting the number desired, but the reply to his question was unsatisfactory. "The butler declares Miss Baird hasn’t been there since yesterday," he told his companion. "Mrs. Parsons is not at home."

McLean’s expression had grown serious. "We had better communicate with Charles Craige," he said. "Craige has handled Miss Baird’s affairs for years, lawyer, agent, and all that. He may aid us in locating Kitty." Then with a touch of impatience, "Don’t stop to look up the number of his law office—it is Main 3300."

As Inspector Mitchell turned again to the telephone, McLean rose and slowly paced back and forth the length of the library. His familiarity with the furnishings and the contents of the bookcases—his taste in literature having coincided with that of Colonel Baird, who spent the last years of his life squandering a depleted fortune to gratify his craving as a collector—caused him to pay little attention to his surroundings, and he walked with head bent, his thoughts with the dead woman upstairs.

Was Inspector Mitchell right—could it have been murder? Who would have reason to harm so feeble an old lady? What motive could have inspired such a senseless crime? Robbery—bah, thieves would not kill to secure books and knickknacks of doubtful value.

[Pg 24]

But then what motive could have prompted suicide? Why should a woman so near the grave take her own life? Miss Baird had abhorred illness in any form; she had always had a healthy distaste for invalidism, and little patience with neurotic friends.

Miss Susan Baird, of all persons, to be found dead—possibly murdered! McLean took out his handkerchief and passed it over his forehead. For the first time he grew conscious of the closeness of the atmosphere, of the musty smell which dampness sometimes engenders. Instinctively, he stopped in front of a side door which opened on a "stoop" leading to the garden which extended to the back of the house. The door resisted his attempts to open it, and he felt for the key. It was not in the lock.

McLean stared at the door in some surprise. It was the only one in the house fitted with a modern lock, and it had always been Miss Baird’s custom to leave the key in the lock. The locks of the other doors were hand-wrought before the Revolution and massive in size. It had been Miss Baird’s fad never to have them modernized. One of her few extravagances, if it could be called such, had been to employ a grandson of old "Oscar," their colored factotum, to keep the copper highly burnished and shining with its old-time, slave-day luster. The great fireplaces were lined with copper and Miss Baird was never happier than when able to contem[Pg 25]plate her grotesque reflection in the walls of the fireplace in her library.

McLean had been a frequent visitor at the Baird mansion, but never before had he seen the key removed from the side door of the library. With a puzzled frown he reached up and pulled back the copper latch which released the upper half of the door—built in the style of the "Dutch" door—and pulled it back. The fresh air, laden as it was with dampness, was refreshing. The rain had slackened, and seeing there was no danger of it splashing inside the library, he pulled the half door still further open. Turning about, he found Inspector Mitchell at his elbow.

"I caught Mr. Craige," he announced. "He is coming right over." Then with a complete change of tone. "How did you open the upper half of this door?"

"By pushing the catch, so—" and McLean demonstrated.

"Hump!" Inspector Mitchell moved the catch back and forth. "I see, there’s a knack about it; it baffled me when I tried to open it. I have the key of the lower door," and he drew it out of his pocket.

"Why did you take it out of the lock?"

"Because—" Inspector Mitchell’s answer was interrupted by the sudden rush of feet across the outer hall. The portières were thrust aside and [Pg 26]a girl dashed into the library followed by a man.

Utterly oblivious of the inspector’s presence, she sped across the room to McLean.

"Oh, Doctor, is it true?" she gasped, incoherently. "Is Aunt Susan—has she—" She faltered and McLean caught her outstretched hands and drew her into a chair.

"Yes," he said, and his quiet, controlled tone brought some measure of relief to the overwrought girl. "Your aunt is dead."

Kitty Baird’s head dropped forward and rested on her cupped hands, and tears forced their way through her fingers. At the sound of her weeping, a seven-toed Angora cat stole out from behind a piece of furniture and pattered across the floor. With a flying leap she seated herself in Kitty’s lap and brushed her head against the girl’s hands. Kitty looked down, caught the soft body in her arms and held the cat tightly to her.

"Mouchette, Mouchette," she moaned. "Aunty’s gone—gone," and she buried her face in the long fur. Gradually, her sobs grew less, and McLean, observing that she was regaining some hold on her composure, withdrew to the other end of the library where Inspector Mitchell was holding a low-toned conversation with Charles Craige.

"I am glad you are here, Craige," McLean said, [Pg 27]keeping his voice lowered. "This is the devil of a mess."

The lawyer’s handsome face expressed grave concern. "So I judge from what Inspector Mitchell told me on the telephone and what he has just said." He moved so as to catch a better view of the library. "Where have you taken Miss Baird?"

"To her bedroom," replied Mitchell. "The autopsy will be held this afternoon probably."

He had not troubled to lower his rather strident voice and his words reached Kitty’s ears. Dropping the cat, she sprang to her feet with a slight cry.

"Autopsy?" she exclaimed. "No, not that!" And she put up her hand as if to ward off a blow.

"Why not?" demanded Mitchell, and as Kitty hesitated, McLean spoke quickly.

"It is customary in cases of sudden death, Kitty, to hold autopsies," he explained. "Your aunt was found dead in this room—"

"Here!" Kitty looked about with a shudder. "I did not realize—Mr. Craige only told me—we met at the door," she pulled herself up short, waited a moment, then continued with more composure. "I understood that aunty had died suddenly. It has been a great shock," she looked piteously from one to the other. "I have lived with aunty ever since I can remember—and now to be without her!" She again paused to steady her voice. "Oh, it seems im[Pg 28]possible that she is dead; she was so alive—so anxious to live."

Inspector Mitchell cocked an eager eye at McLean.

"So she wanted to live, Miss," he commented. "Never expressed any wish to end her life, did she, Miss Baird?"

"Never!" Kitty stared at him in astonishment. "What put such an idea into your head?"

"It wasn’t ever in my head," Mitchell retorted. "Dr. McLean is responsible for the theory."

Kitty turned and looked directly at McLean. Tears were still very near the deep blue eyes, and her cheeks had lost their wonted color, but as she faced the three men they were conscious of her beauty. Slightly above medium height, she looked taller owing to her straight and graceful carriage. McLean sighed involuntarily. He dreaded a scene.

"Why, Doctor, what made you think Aunt Susan wished to die?" Kitty’s voice rose. "You told me only last week that she was in excellent health."

"So I did." McLean spoke in haste. "Your aunt was in good health, Kitty; but, eh, the circumstances of her death—"

Kitty’s eyes widened. "The circumstances of her death," she repeated slowly, and paused as if seeking a word, "were they not—natural?"

"No, Miss Baird, they were not," broke in In[Pg 29]spector Mitchell, anxious to have the floor. "We found your aunt dead in this library about two hours ago. Dr. McLean examined her body; he can tell you from what she died."

Kitty looked in mute question at McLean while her trembling hands plucked aimlessly at her damp handkerchief. The surgeon impulsively put his arm about her shoulder before speaking.

"Your aunt died from a dose of poison," he stated slowly.

"Poison!" Kitty reeled and but for McLean’s strong arm would have fallen. Dumbly, she stared at the three men. "Aunt Susan poisoned! By whom?"

"We do not know that—yet," replied Mitchell, and the tone of his voice chilled Kitty. It was some seconds before she could speak.

"What poisoned her?" she asked.

"The exact nature of the poison will be determined by the autopsy," broke in McLean. "The coroner’s examination of the body and mine were superficial, but it did establish the fact that your aunt had swallowed poison." He caught the terror which flashed into Kitty’s eyes, and added impulsively, "Miss Baird, in a moment of insanity, may have committed suicide."

"There you go again, Doctor." Mitchell laughed [Pg 30]shortly. "Now, Miss Baird, where did you spend last night?"

"With my cousin, Nina Potter, and her husband, at their apartment in Sixteenth Street," Kitty spoke mechanically. Turning about she walked stiffly over to a chair and sank into it. She wondered if her companions were aware of her trembling knees.

"Kitty," Charles Craige’s charmingly modulated voice sounded soothingly to her overwrought nerves. "I would have prepared you for this had I known," he hesitated, "these details. But Inspector Mitchell only telephoned to me that your aunt was dead, and it was not until we both came in that I learned, as you have, of the tragedy. I grieve with you, dear child; your aunt was my good friend for many years."

Kitty looked up at him gratefully. She was very fond of her handsome godfather. "Thank you," she murmured. "I feel stunned." She pressed her fingers against her temples. "Oh, poor aunty—to die here alone! Why, why didn’t I get up early and come here at once without waiting for breakfast? I might have saved her."

McLean moved uneasily and exchanged glances with Mitchell.

"Don’t reproach yourself, Kitty," he begged. "Your presence here this morning would not have saved your aunt," and as she looked at him in aston[Pg 31]ishment, he added more slowly, "judging from the condition of the body, your aunt died fully twenty hours ago."

Charles Craig broke the silence. "Twenty hours ago," he repeated. "That would be yesterday—"

"Sunday afternoon, to be exact," stated Inspector Mitchell. "When did you leave here, Miss Baird?"

"Yesterday afternoon, about three o’clock; no, nearly four," Kitty corrected herself with a haste not lost upon the inspector.

"And when did you last see your aunt alive?" he questioned.

"About that time." Kitty’s foot tapped restlessly against the rug. "She was in her bedroom, and I called to her as I went down the staircase."

"What did you say to her?" Mitchell was taking mental note of Kitty’s well-groomed appearance and her nervous handling of her handkerchief.

"I told her not to sit up late." Kitty did not meet the inspector’s eyes. "Aunt Susan seldom went to bed before one or two o’clock in the morning; she claimed it rested her to sit up and read in the library."

"Were the servants here when you left the house?" asked Mitchell.

"Servants?" A ghost of a smile touched Kitty’s lips. "Aunty would not employ any one but old Oscar. He never comes until about seven in the morning, and leaves immediately after dinner."

[Pg 32]

"And was it your custom to leave your aunt alone in the house at night?" Mitchell was blind to the heavy frown with which McLean listened to his continued questioning of Kitty. The surgeon guessed the tension she was under and dreaded a breakdown.

"Occasionally, yes." Observing Mitchell’s expression, Kitty added hastily, "Why not? Aunt Susan feared no one."

"And she was murdered." Inspector Mitchell eyed her keenly; then glanced at his companions—both men were watching Kitty.

"Or killed herself—" Kitty spoke with an effort. "How did you learn of my aunt’s death?"

Inspector Mitchell seemed not to hear the question and Kitty repeated it more peremptorily.

"We received a telephone message, at Headquarters," he stated finally. "I was in the office at the time and came over to investigate." He paused dramatically. "We found your aunt sitting dead in that chair." He walked over and touched the throne-shaped chair. Kitty did not follow him except with her eyes.

"How did you get in?" asked Craige, walking toward him.

"We found the key of the front door in the lock on the outside," replied Mitchell.

"What!" Kitty sprang to her feet.

[Pg 33]

"Odd, wasn’t it?" Mitchell was watching her closely.

"Very," briefly. Kitty paused in thought. "What was the nature of the message you received over the telephone, Inspector?"

"To come at once to ‘Rose Hill,’" Mitchell spoke with impressiveness. "That a crime had been committed."

"Good heavens!" Kitty took a step in his direction, but before she could speak again, Mitchell held up his hand for silence.

"Did I understand, Miss Baird, that you and your aunt occupied this house alone at night?" he asked.

"We did."

"And you left here between three and four o’clock on Sunday—yesterday afternoon?"

"Yes."

"And the last time you saw your aunt she was alive?"

"Yes."

"Do you employ a female servant?"

"No."

Inspector Mitchell regarded the girl in silence. She bore his scrutiny with outward composure.

"Miss Baird," he spoke slowly, weighing his words. "I took the message over the telephone to come at once to ‘Rose Hill’—that a crime had been [Pg 34]committed here. The message was given by a woman."

Kitty stared at him uncomprehendingly, dumbly; then, before they could detain her, she fled from the library and rushing upstairs, dashed into her room, locked the door, and flung herself face downward on the bed.

[Pg 35]

CHAPTER IV
SUICIDE?
The reception was in full swing and Mrs. Amos Parsons contemplated her crowded drawing room in a spirit of happy self-congratulation. She had just welcomed a newly accredited ambassador and introduced a Cabinet officer to the ambassador’s charming wife and she felt that her feet were at last securely placed upon the ladder of success. The scene was typical of the national Capital. The World War had rudely interrupted the "calling" days of the hostesses of Washington, but with the advent of peace a return had been made to old customs, and "teas" were again taking their accepted place in the social calendar.

"A penny for your thoughts," said a masculine voice over her shoulder and glancing around Mrs. Parsons found Charles Craige at her elbow.

"You offer a penny too much," laughed Mrs. Parsons. "They were idle thoughts—"

"About the idle rich." Craig looked at her with [Pg 36]admiration. "Upon my word, Cecilia, you grow prettier every day."

"Happiness is a great ‘beautifier,’" Mrs. Parsons glanced up at him with a strange, new shyness; then quickly veiled her eyes that he might not read her thoughts too plainly. Under pretense of arranging the bouquet, his gift, which she was carrying, Craige pressed her hand. His marked attention to the fascinating widow had aroused the interest of their circle of friends, and the prospect of the announcement of their engagement had formed the topic of conversation on numerous occasions.

There was a lull in the arrival of guests and Mrs. Parsons imperceptibly edged toward an alcove. Many curious glances were cast in their direction by both men and women who stood chatting in groups about the long drawing room. They made a striking tableau—Mrs. Parsons’ delicate beauty enhanced by a perfectly fitting modish gown, and Charles Craige, standing tall and straight beside her, his iron-grey hair and ruddy complexion adding distinction to his appearance.

"The world and his wife are here this afternoon, Cecilia," he said. "Your tea is an unqualified success. And every one is lingering," glancing down the room. "That is a sure sign that they are enjoying themselves."

"Except Major Wallace." Mrs. Parsons drew [Pg 37]his attention to a man worming his way between the groups of people. "He appears to avoid his friends—there, he has cut Nina Potter dead."

"What a caddish thing to do!" Craige spoke with warmth as he saw Mrs. Potter shrink back and her half-extended hand drop to her side. Turning quickly, she slipped behind two women and disappeared from their sight. Walking moodily ahead, Leigh Wallace found himself face to face with his hostess and Charles Craige.

"Not leaving so early, surely?" she exclaimed as he put out his hand.

"Yes, I just dropped in for a minute," Wallace explained, and he made no effort to conceal the indifference of his tone. "I don’t feel very fit this afternoon, so you must excuse me. Good evening, Craige," and he turned abruptly and left them.

"Of all uncivil people!" observed Mrs. Parsons, much incensed. "That’s the last invitation he gets to my house."

"He doesn’t look well," Craige remarked thoughtfully. "I presume he and Kitty Baird have had another quarrel."

"Well, he has no right to vent his ill-humor on me or my guests." Mrs. Parsons was not pacified.

"I hope Kitty decides to marry Ted Rogers and not Leigh Wallace." Craige looked grave. "It [Pg 38]would be a far more suitable match, although I understand Rodgers is not wealthy."

"Mr. Rodgers was here a moment ago." Mrs. Parsons raised her lorgnette and glanced about her. "He asked particularly for Kitty. Where in the world is she? She was to pour tea for me this afternoon."

"Have you not heard—"

"Heard?" Attracted by the alteration in Craige’s voice, Mrs. Parsons looked at him. "Heard what?"

"That Kitty’s aunt, Miss Susan Baird, was found dead this morning—"

"Great heavens!" Mrs. Parsons retreated a step in shocked surprise. "Oh, Mrs. Sutherland, so glad to see you. You know Mr. Craige, of course." As the newcomer and the lawyer exchanged greetings, Mrs. Parsons saw Nina Potter and started toward her, but several guests claimed her attention and when she looked around Nina had vanished.

The room which served Benjamin Potter as a combination workshop and library was at the other end of the apartment which the elderly naturalist had leased upon his marriage to Nina Underwood six months before. The apartment house, one of those erected to meet the demands for housing wealthy war-workers who thronged the national Capital during the winter of 1917-1918, had but one apartment to each floor, and Potter had been grati[Pg 39]fied by having the best room, from his point of view, set aside for his exclusive use by his bride.

Mrs. Potter had also seen to it that the furniture was of the finest mahogany, the filing and specimen cases of the most approved models, while the leather-seated chairs and lounges added greatly to the comfort of the occupants of the room. No expense had been spared and for the first time in his hard-working, studious life, Ben Potter had found himself surrounded with every comfort which money could purchase.

Potter’s marriage to his pretty stenographer had been a severe shock to several impecunious relatives and a nine days’ wonder to his small world. He had taken the surprised comments and sometimes belated congratulations of both relatives and friends with the same placid good nature which characterized all his actions. Nina, with a tact for which she had not been credited, went out of her way to cultivate his friends, and if she felt the chilly reception accorded her, never by word or manner betrayed the fact.

Seated alone in his room and absorbed in his book, Potter was oblivious of the lengthening shadows and was only recalled to his surroundings by the opening of the door.

"Well, what is it?" he asked testily. "Oh!" At [Pg 40]sight of his wife, his expression brightened. "I did not expect you home so soon."

"Soon?" Nina laughed softly, as she brushed his unruly gray hair back from his forehead. "Have you no idea of the time? It is nearly six o’clock, and you should not be reading with only one light turned on. Doctor McLean must talk to you."

Potter made a wry face. "I would rather listen to you than any doctor," he said and pulled forward a chair close to his own. "Tell me, have you had a pleasant time at Mrs. Parsons’ tea?"

"Does one ever have a pleasant time at a tea?" Nina’s gesture was eloquent. "Where are your matches, dear?"—fumbling, as she spoke, with her cigarette case.

Potter frowned slightly as he located a match box under the tumbled papers on his desk and struck a light for her. He had never been able to master his dislike to women smoking, in spite of his staunch belief that his pretty wife was always right in everything she did. Reading his expression like a book, Nina slipped her hand inside his and leaned against his arm.

"It is very lonely going about without you," she murmured. "I don’t enjoy myself a bit when you remain at home."

Potter turned and kissed the soft cheek so near his own. "My holiday is over," he answered, and [Pg 41]putting out his foot touched a packing case, its contents partly spread on the floor in an untidy pile. "I cannot neglect my work."

"You will never be accused of that," with flattering emphasis. "But, dear, I need—want your society more than these dreadful reptiles," and she made a slight grimace as she glanced at the bottles containing specimens preserved in alcohol which adorned the shelves of a cabinet near at hand. "I know," lowering her voice, "I’m selfish—"

"I love your selfishness, dear," he replied, and held her closely to him just as a tap sounded on the door. "Confound it! Come in."

The Japanese servant, who answered his command, bowed profoundly, and his calm gaze never flickered at sight of the loverlike attitude of husband and wife.

"You home, Sir?" he asked.

"Yes, of course, I’m home. What of it?" Potter dropped his arm from about his wife’s waist in embarrassment.

"Mr. Rodgers call upon you." The Japanese spoke without haste. "You see him?"

"Certainly. Bring him here," and at the words Moto vanished.

"Here?" echoed Nina. "Isn’t it a bit untidy?"

"What of it? He hasn’t come to see us," he grumbled. "Probably thinks Kitty is here. I don’t [Pg 42]approve of Kitty playing fast and loose with those two men."

"What men?" Nina was not looking at her husband, and missed his keen scrutiny.

"Ted Rodgers and Leigh Wallace," briefly. "If it goes on much longer, I will speak to Cousin Susan Baird. Hello, what did you do that for?" as the room was suddenly plunged in darkness. A second later the light flashed up.

"I pulled the wrong string," Nina explained as she lighted both sides of the electric lamp.

Potter paused undecidedly, then rose and, going over to the packing case, tossed excelsior and paper back into it and pushed it behind a screen. When he turned back, he saw Nina deftly rearranging the ornaments and papers on his flat top desk. In silence he watched her graceful movements and the play of the lamplight on her hair which shone like spun gold under its rays. It would have taken a more observant man than her husband to have discovered that nature’s art had been supplemented by the rouge pot. No wrinkles marred the soft pink and white tint of her complexion, and few would have guessed that she had passed her thirtieth birthday.

Looking up, Nina caught her husband’s gaze and flushed faintly.

"I hope Mr. Rodgers won’t stay long," she began, [Pg 43]and checked herself hastily as Moto ushered in their caller. "So very glad to see you, Mr. Rodgers," she exclaimed, extending her hand, which rested in his for a fraction of a second and was withdrawn.

At the touch of her cold fingers, Rodgers looked intently at her. He still found it hard to realize that the fashionably gowned woman before him was Ben Potter’s wife. Ben a Benedict! The mere idea had provoked a smile, and the announcement of the marriage in cold print had produced a burst of merriment, and the silent hope that Ben had found a motherly soul to run his house for him. Instead of which, with the perversity of Fate, Ben Potter had selected a wife at least fifteen years his junior, who would most certainly enjoy the social life of Washington to the full.

Potter had formed a strong attachment for the younger man when spending a winter in San Francisco three years before and Rodgers had been a frequent visitor since his arrival in Washington. His visits, as Potter shrewdly noted, were generally timed to find Kitty Baird with her cousins, and ended in his escorting her home.

"I missed you both at Mrs. Parsons’ tea, so dropped in for a chat," Rodgers remarked, accepting a cigar from Potter as Nina perched herself on one end of the lounge. "Why weren’t you there?"

"Nina went," answered Potter, throwing himself [Pg 44]down in his favorite chair. "You don’t catch me at a tea."

"You were there, Mrs. Potter?" Rodgers spoke in surprise. "I searched for you—"

"It was a frightful jam." Nina picked up her workbag which she had left on the lounge earlier in the afternoon and unfolded its contents. "I did not stay long."

"But you heard the news?"

"News?" Potter glanced up, expectantly. The tone in which the question was put arrested his attention which had strayed to his wife. "Was there any special news? Nina, you didn’t tell me."

"I heard no news in particular." Nina held a needle and thread nearer the light. "To what do you refer, Mr. Rodgers?"

"To the death of Miss Susan Baird."

Potter sat bolt upright. His healthy color changed to a sickly white. "Cousin Susan dead? Impossible!"

"It is a fact. Mr. Craige told me—" Rodgers stooped over and picked up the needle which had slipped from Nina’s clutch. "Take care you don’t prick yourself, Mrs. Potter," he warned, as he placed it in the palm of her hand and noticed the quick, spasmodic movement of her fingers. "The news had just gotten about and every one at the tea was talking of Miss Baird."

[Pg 45]

"That’s turning the tables; usually Cousin Susan talked about everybody," Potter remarked, breaking a slight pause. "Why hasn’t Kitty telephoned us? I am now her nearest living relative."

"She may have tried to reach us," suggested his wife. "I don’t suppose Moto answered the telephone in my absence; he hates it. Did you hear it ring, Ben?"

"No," shortly. "I can’t say I grieve over your news, Ted. I have always resented Cousin Susan’s treatment of Kitty. Made the girl slave for her, the venomous old scandal-monger."

"Ben!" Nina’s shocked tone caused her husband to pause in his rapid speech. "Did you hear, Mr. Rodgers, the cause of Cousin Susan’s death?"

"Bit her tongue and died from blood-poisoning," growled Potter, before Rodgers could answer.

"Ben!"

"Well, all right, dear; I’ll say no more. But," in self-defense, noting Rodgers’ surprise, "I’ve had no cause to love Cousin Susan— I heard her caustic remarks about my marriage. Never mind that now," with a quick glance at his wife. "Go ahead, Ted, tell us of what Cousin Susan died."

"The coroner will have to answer that question, Ben."

"The coroner!" Potter rose to his feet and stared at his guest. "What d’ye mean? Oh, hurry your [Pg 46]speech, man; don’t keep us in suspense," as Rodgers hesitated and eyed Mrs. Potter in some trepidation. Judging from her sudden loss of color, she was about to faint.

"Your cousin was found dead," he said, and got no further.

"Found dead—where?" demanded Mrs. Potter, breathlessly.

"In her library."

Potter broke the pause. "Go ahead and tell us what you know, Ted." He reseated himself. "Give us every detail."

Rodgers shook his head. "I know very little on the subject," he said. "I stopped on the way here and telephoned to ‘Rose Hill,’ but could get no response; so I came right here supposing you could tell me further news. I thought Miss Kitty might be with you."

"We have not seen Kitty since early this morning," answered Nina. "Who found Cousin Susan?" Rodgers, his ear trained to detect variations in the human voice, observed a faint huskiness in the usual soft tones.

"I do not know, Mrs. Potter," he said. "Miss Baird was so well-known in Washington that her death was commented on at the tea, and I only heard a garbled account of what occurred. Perhaps there might be something in the evening paper."

[Pg 47]

"To be sure." Potter jumped at the suggestion, and hurrying toward the door, pushed an electric bell. A second later and Moto responded. "The evening paper, quick."

Moto let his gaze travel around the room, then darting forward he crossed to where the packing case stood partially concealed behind the screen. Delving into its contents, he returned a moment later with a crumpled newspaper and extended it to his master.

"You toss it down, so," demonstrating, "when I bring it to you, sir," he explained. "You say, ‘Moto, don’t trouble me, go away,’ and I go."

"Well, well, Moto, you interrupted me." Potter’s tone was apologetic. "Much obliged for finding the paper. That is all I wanted." And Moto slipped away to his pantry in time to hear the buzzer of the front door bell sounding faintly.

Forgetful of all but the paper in his hand, Potter turned it over and searched for the item of news.

"Try the first page," suggested Rodgers. Potter switched the sheet around and gave vent to a startled exclamation as his eyes fell on the double column heading:

ELDERLY SPINSTER FOUND DEAD
SUICIDE SUSPECTED

[Pg 48]

"Suicide!" Potter gasped. "Bless my soul! Who would have believed Cousin Susan would kill herself?"

"She didn’t!" The denial rang out clearly from the direction of the door and wheeling around the three occupants of the room saw Kitty Baird confronting them. "Aunt Susan did not commit suicide, Ben; you know she didn’t."

Potter stared at her long and earnestly. Twice he opened his mouth to speak and closed it again, after a look at Ted Rodgers who, upon Kitty’s entrance, had stopped somewhat in the background so that his face was in shadow.

"I don’t know anything," Potter said finally. "I haven’t read the paper—"

"The paper has printed lies!" Kitty’s foot came down with an unmistakable stamp, and her eyes sparkled with wrath. "I tell you Aunt Susan did not commit suicide."

"Yes, dear." Nina stepped hastily forward and threw her arm protectingly across Kitty’s shoulder. "Come and sit down, and when you are more composed you can tell us of—of the details." Exerting some strength, she pulled the unwilling girl to the lounge and gently pushed her down upon it. "I am so, so sorry, Kitty. Your aunt—" she stumbled a bit in her speech—"Your aunt’s death is a great shock—"

[Pg 49]

"To me," bitterly. "I know many people disliked her. Poor Aunt Susan—" Kitty’s lips trembled. "You need not try to dissemble your feelings, Ben. I know you hated Susan."

"Oh, come, Kitty; that’s pretty strong language!" Potter flushed angrily. "You are unstrung—where are your smelling salts, Nina?"

"A glass of wine would be better." Rodgers spoke for the first time, and Kitty looked up in startled surprise. She had been conscious of a third person in the room when she first entered, but, absorbed in her talk with her cousin, had forgotten his presence.

"Where’s my flask?" demanded Potter, considerably shaken out of his habitual calm. "Oh, thank you, my dear," as Nina snatched it out of one of his desk drawers. "Now, Kitty," unscrewing the stopper and pouring some cognac into an empty tumbler, which, with a water carafe, stood on his desk. "Drink this; no, I insist—" as she put up her hand in protest. "You will need all your strength—drink every drop."

Kitty’s eyes sought Rodgers and his quick "Please do" did more to make her drink the cognac than all Potter’s urging. The fiery strength of the old brandy made her catch her breath, but she did not put the tumbler down until she had swallowed its contents. As the stimulant crept through her [Pg 50]veins, her head cleared, and the feeling of deadly faintness which had threatened to overcome her several times on her way to her cousin’s apartment, disappeared.

"I will tell you what I know," she began. "Aunt Susan was found by the police dead in our library. The coroner claims that she had taken poison."

"Well?" prompted Potter. "Go on."

"Aunt Susan never swallowed poison—of her own free will." Kitty turned and gazed at Ted Rodgers. Intently she studied his face, noting his clear-cut features and shapely head. Standing six feet four, he seemed to dwarf Ben Potter. Although the latter was nearly his equal in height, the stoop in his shoulders, which betrayed the hours spent in poring over books, made Potter appear much shorter. Something of his quiet, determined character showed in Rodgers’ firm mouth and handsome eyes, eyes which redeemed the severe lines of his face.

He had fallen madly in love with Kitty and had courted her with the persistency of his faithful nature. Heartsick, craving sympathy, which had brought her to her cousin only to be rebuffed by his reception of the news of her aunt’s death, Kitty turned instinctively to Rodgers.

"Won’t you help me prove that Aunt Susan did not commit suicide?" she asked.

As he studied the upturned face, the deep blue [Pg 51]eyes, made more brilliant by the tears she had shed that morning, and noted the forlorn droop of her shoulders, Rodgers’ decision was taken.

"I will do anything for you—anything," he promised, his deep voice vibrating with feeling.

"Then find the murderer of Aunt Susan," she cried.

"How—what?" Potter looked at her aghast. "What makes you think Cousin Susan was murdered?"

"My intuition," promptly. "Oh, you may jeer, but it was no case of suicide. Aunt Susan did not court death—she feared it."

[Pg 52]

CHAPTER V
AT THE MORGUE
Coroner Penfield adjusted his glasses and gazed at the six men who composed the jury, as they filed into their places, and then turned to look at the spectators assembled in the room reserved for the coroner’s inquests at the District of Columbia Morgue. Not only Washington society was taking a deep interest in the inquiry into the death of Miss Susan Baird, but many other citizens of the national Capital, to whom the name of Baird meant nothing, and who had been unacquainted with the spinster in her lifetime. Every seat was taken in the large square room, and from his position on the elevated platform, where stood tables and chairs for the coroner, his assistant, the reporters, and the witnesses, Coroner Penfield saw Dr. Leonard McLean conversing with Inspector Mitchell of the Central Office.

The hands of the wall clock were within five minutes of ten, the hour at which the inquest had been [Pg 53]called, on Tuesday morning, when the outer door opened and Ted Rodgers stepped inside the room, followed a second later by Benjamin Potter. Observing two unoccupied seats on the second row they crossed the room, exchanging, as they did so, low-spoken greetings with friends and acquaintances who had come early to secure the most advantageous seats.

The swearing in of the jury by the Morgue Master required but a short time. Clearing his throat, Coroner Penfield outlined the reason for the inquest, and asked the jury if they had inspected the body of the dead woman.

"We have," responded the foreman, and Penfield turned to the Morgue Master, who occupied a chair at the foot of the platform.

"Call the first witness," he directed. "Inspector Mitchell."

Hat in hand, the Inspector advanced to the steps and mounted to the witness chair, and was duly sworn by the Morgue Master. In businesslike tones he answered the coroner’s quickly put questions as to his identity and length of service on the Metropolitan Police Force and Detective Bureau.

"Did you find Miss Baird’s body?" asked the coroner.

"I did, Sir."

"When?"

[Pg 54]

"Yesterday, Monday morning, when summoned to her home in Georgetown."

"How did the summons reach you?"

"By telephone." Mitchell hesitated, and the coroner waited for him to continue before putting another question. "The message was to go at once to ‘Rose Hill,’ that a crime had been committed there."

"Did the person talking on the telephone give his name?"

"No, Sir."

"Did you ask his name?"

"I did, but she rang off instead of answering."

"She?" inquiringly.

"I took the voice to be that of a woman," explained Mitchell cautiously.

"Are you not certain that it was a woman speaking?"

"To the best of my belief it was." Mitchell paused. "I am sure it was a woman’s voice."

"Have you tried to trace the call?"

"Yes," somewhat glumly. "But Central had no record of it."

"Then it did not come over a public telephone?"

"No, Sir."

"Was it on a limited service wire?"

"No. Central declares not," responded Mitchell. "She insists that it must have been sent by some one using unlimited service."

[Pg 55]

Penfield paused to jot down a note on his memorandum pad before again questioning the inspector.

"At what hour did the telephone call reach you?"

"At eight minutes past eight o’clock yesterday morning. I was in Police Headquarters and took the message myself," tersely.

"At what hour did you reach Miss Baird’s home?"

"Fifteen minutes later. I took O’Bryan, a plain clothes man, and Patrolman Myers with me."

"Tell us what you found when you reached the Baird house," Coroner Penfield directed, settling back in his chair. Conscious that he had the undivided attention of every one in the crowded room, Mitchell spoke with slow impressiveness.

"We went up the front steps of the house and rang the bell; not getting any response we rang several times. I was just thinking that we had better try the back entrance when O’Bryan saw the key in the front door—"

"Wait." Penfield held up his hand. "Do I understand that the key to the front door was left in the lock on the outside in plain view of every passer-by?"

"It wasn’t exactly in plain view," protested Mitchell. "We didn’t see it at once, and the sidewalk is some distance from the house, which stands on a [Pg 56]high terrace. Passers-by could not see the key in the lock unless they ran up the steps and stood in the vestibule of the front door."

"Was the door locked?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Was it a spring lock?"

"No, Sir." Mitchell drew an old-fashioned brass key from his pocket and handed it to the coroner. "That lock, Sir, was made by hand many years ago. It’s the kind that if you lock the door, either from the inside or the outside, the door could not be opened unless you had the key to unlock it."

"Then, Inspector, some person, on leaving the Baird house, locked the door on the outside, and thereby locked in any person or persons who might have been in the house at that time?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Ump!" Penfield picked up the brass key and handed it to the foreman of the jury. "Did you find finger marks on the key?" he asked.

"No, not one." Mitchell hesitated. "Whoever handled the key wore gloves."

"Very likely." Penfield spoke more briskly. "What did you discover inside the house, Inspector?"

"We found no one in the hall; so we walked into the parlor which is on the right of the front door. No one was there, so we kept on through the door opening into the rear hall, and from there walked [Pg 57]into the library." Mitchell paused dramatically. "There we found Miss Baird’s dead body lying huddled up in a big chair in front of her tea table."

"Had she been taking tea?"

"Yes, judging from the plate of sandwiches and cakes, and her nearly empty teacup." Mitchell explained in detail. "There was a plate in front of her on which lay a half-eaten peach."

"Was there evidence to show that some one had been having tea with Miss Baird?" inquired Penfield.

"Only one cup and saucer and plate had been used, Sir."

"And the chairs, how were they placed?"

"About as usual, I imagine." Mitchell looked a trifle worried. "There was no chair drawn up to the tea table, if you mean that. Only Miss Baird’s chair stood close by it."

"What did you do upon the discovery of Miss Baird’s body?" asked Penfield, after a pause.

"Made sure that she was dead and not in need of a physician, then sent O’Bryan to telephone to the coroner, while Myers and I searched the house," replied Mitchell.

"Did you find any one in the house?"

"No, Sir. It was empty, except for the dead woman and a cat."

The inspector’s reply caused a stir of interest, [Pg 58]and one juror started to address him, then, conscious of attracting attention, decided not to speak.

"Did you find the windows and doors locked?" inquired Penfield, after a second’s thought.

"Yes; that is, those on the first floor and in the basement were locked," explained Mitchell. "The windows on the second and third floors were unlocked, but closed. Sunday was a cold day," he added.

"In your opinion, Mitchell, could the house have been entered from the second story?" asked Penfield.

The inspector considered the question before answering. "No, Sir, not without a ladder, and we found none on the premises. The house sets back in its own grounds, so to speak, and the neighboring houses are quite far away. There is no party wall, and no porch roof to aid a housebreaker."

"That is all for the present, Inspector. As you go out, ask O’Bryan to come here."

The plain clothes officer kept them waiting only a brief second. His testimony simply corroborated that of his superior officer, and Patrolman Myers, who followed him, added nothing of interest. Upon his departure from the platform, his place was taken by an old negro, who, with some difficulty, mounted the steps and hobbled across the platform to the witness chair.

[Pg 59]

"What is your name?" asked Coroner Penfield, who had waited in some impatience while the witness was being sworn.

"Oscar, Sah, please, Sah."

"Oscar what?"

"Oscar Benjamin De Cassenove Jackson, Sah."

"Well, Oscar, are you acquainted with the nature of an oath?"

"Laws, Sah, ain’t I been married mos’ forty years? My wife, she’s kinda handy wif her tongue," and Oscar smiled, deprecatingly.

"I am not alluding to swearing," exclaimed Penfield. "I mean the sort of oath requiring you to tell the truth and nothing but the truth."

"Laws, Sah, I tells de truf every day o’ my life," replied Oscar with some indignation. "’Tain’t no occasion to tell me that."

"Very well." Penfield spoke with sternness. "Remember, you are under oath to tell only the truth. When did you last see Miss Susan Baird alive?"

Oscar blinked at the abruptness of the question. "Sunday mawning, Sah, when I was servin’ dinner at one o’clock."

"Did she appear to be in good spirits?" asked Penfield. "In good health—" he added, noting Oscar’s mystified expression.

"Yessir. She ate real hearty, and when I went in de lib’ry after dinner, she was jes’ as peaceful an’ [Pg 60]ca’m, a-sittin’ in that great easy chair o’ hers as if she never had had no words with Miss Kitty."

"Oh, so Miss Baird had words with Miss Kitty—and who might Miss Kitty be?"

A startled look flitted across Ted Rodgers’ face, to be gone the next instant. He had followed the testimony of each witness with undivided attention, answering only in monosyllables the muttered remarks made to him occasionally by Ben Potter, whose expression of boredom had given place to more lively interest at sight of Oscar on his way to the witness chair.

"Who am Miss Kitty?" asked Oscar in scandalized surprise. "Why, Miss Baird’s niece. They live together, leastwise they did ’till yesterday. Poor ole Miss, she didn’t mean no harm—"

"No harm to whom?" questioned Penfield swiftly.

"To Miss Kitty. She jes’ said she wouldn’t have no such carrying-on," explained Oscar.

"To what did she refer?"

Oscar favored the coroner with a blank stare. "I dunno, Sah. That’s all o’ de conversation that I overheard."

Penfield regarded him attentively, but the old man’s gaze did not waver, and after a moment he resumed his examination.

"How long have you worked for Miss Baird?"

"’Most twenty years, Sah."

[Pg 61]

"And what did you do for her?"

"I cooked, waited on de table, tended de fires and de garden, cleaned de house, an’ run errands," ended Oscar with a flourish, and Penfield had difficulty in suppressing a smile. Oscar’s rheumatic legs did not suggest an agile errand boy.

"Who were the other servants?"

"Weren’t none," tersely. "Miss Baird, she wouldn’t keep no yeller help, so Mandy, my wife, washed de clothes, an’ I done de rest."

"Did you and Mandy sleep in Miss Baird’s house?"

"No, Sah. We lives in our own house, two blocks away."

"What were your working hours?"

"Hey?" Oscar stroked his wooly head reflectively. "’Most all day," he volunteered finally. "Mandy had one o’ her spells yesterday mawnin’ an’ I had ter get a doctah fo’ her, an’ that’s why I never reached Miss Baird’s ’til ’bout noon."

"I see." Penfield sat back in his chair and fumbled with his watch charm. Oscar as a witness was a disappointment, whatever his accomplishments as an all-round servant. "At what hour did you leave Miss Baird’s on Sunday?"

"’Bout half-past two," answered Oscar, after due thought.

"And whom did you leave in the house?"

[Pg 62]

"Miss Baird and her niece, Miss Kitty."

"No one else—no visitor?"

"No, Sah."

"Think again, Oscar. Remember, you are under oath. Did either Miss Baird or Miss Kitty Baird have callers before you left on Sunday afternoon?"

"No, Sah, they did not, not while I was there."

Penfield pushed back his chair and rose. "That will do, Oscar, you are excused. Hume," to the Morgue Master. "Call Miss Katrina Baird."

[Pg 63]

CHAPTER VI
TESTIMONY
There was craning of necks and bending of heads as the Morgue Master opened the door leading to the room where the witnesses waited to be called, and every eye was focussed on Kitty Baird as she stepped into the court room.

"Don’t look so startled, Kitty," whispered Dr. Leonard McLean in her ear. He had retained his seat by the door, expecting to leave at any moment. "This inquest is only a legal formality."

"But these people—the publicity," she faltered.

"Move on, Miss, move on," directed Hume, the Morgue Master. "You can’t talk to the witnesses, Doctor. This way, Miss," and interposing his thickset, stocky figure between Leonard and Kitty, he followed her to the platform and administered the oath: "To tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth."

Kitty sat down in the witness chair with a feeling [Pg 64]of thankfulness. The space between it and the door through which she had entered had seemed an endless distance as she traversed it. Coroner Penfield swung his chair around so as to obtain a better view of her.

"Your full name?" he asked.

"Katrina Baird." Her low voice barely reached the jurors, and Penfield smiled at her encouragingly.

"Please speak louder," he suggested. "Were you related to Miss Susan Baird?"

"Yes; she was my aunt," Kitty’s voice gained in strength as her confidence returned. "My father, Judge George Baird, was her only brother."

"You made your home in Georgetown with your aunt?"

"Yes, ever since the death of my parents."

"And who else resided with your aunt?"

"No one."

"No servants?"

"No. Our only servant, Oscar, never slept in the house."

"Did your aunt ever employ another servant?"

"No."

"No chambermaid?"

"No." Kitty’s flush was becoming to her, the coroner decided. The added color brought out the blue of her eyes and softened the haggard lines which had come overnight. "My aunt could not af[Pg 65]ford to employ two servants, so we looked after the house, Oscar doing the heavy work. He was always faithful and kind."

"And devoted to your aunt?" with a quick look at her.

"Yes, certainly," she responded, calmly.

There was a brief pause before Penfield again addressed her, and Kitty, her first nervous dread of facing the crowded court room a thing of the past, allowed her gaze to wander about the room. It was with a sharp stab of pain that she recognized more than one familiar face among the spectators. Could it be that men and women whom her aunt had counted among her friends and whom she had entertained in her limited way had come to the inquest from curiosity? Kitty shivered, the idea shocked her.

"Did you spend last Sunday at home, Miss Baird?" asked Penfield.

"No, not the entire day," she replied. "I left there about three o’clock in the afternoon to go to my cousin, Mrs. Benjamin Potter, at whose apartment I was to spend the night."

"Was it your custom to leave your aunt alone in the house at night?"

"Not a custom, certainly; but I did occasionally stay overnight with friends or with my cousins, Mr. and Mrs. Potter, in Washington," Kitty explained. [Pg 66]"Aunt Susan was never afraid of being left alone in the house. And, of course, I was at my work all through the day."

"And what is your work, Miss Baird?"

"I am employed as a social secretary by Mrs. Amos Parsons," she replied, concisely. "I am with her from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon."

"Only on week days?"

"Yes. I have Sunday to myself."

"And how did you spend last Sunday, Miss Baird?"

"I went to church in the morning."

"Alone?"

"No. Major Leigh Wallace accompanied me."

"Did Major Wallace return to your house with you?"

"No."

The curtly spoken monosyllable brought a sharp glance from the coroner, of which she appeared unaware.

"At what hour did you reach your house, Miss Baird?" he asked.

"After church—" she considered a moment. "To be exact, about a quarter of one."

"Did you and your aunt lunch alone?"

"Yes. We had no guests," briefly.

"And what did you do after luncheon?"

[Pg 67]

"It wasn’t luncheon, it was dinner," she explained. "I went upstairs almost immediately after it was served, and changed my dress preparatory to going out."

"When did you last see your aunt alive?" asked Penfield.

"As I was leaving the house," Kitty spoke more hurriedly, "I looked into her bedroom and called out ‘Good-by!’"

"Miss Baird," Penfield let his eyeglasses dangle from their ribbon and stood up. "Was your aunt expecting guests at tea on Sunday afternoon?"

"I am sure she was not," she replied. "Aunt Susan always asked me to arrange the tea table if she had invited any of her friends to come and see her. She was, eh, formal and insisted that her guests be given tea when they called."

"Was it your aunt’s custom to drink tea every afternoon whether she had guests or not?"

"Oh, yes. She had a spirit lamp and a tea caddy in the library, and made tea for herself," Kitty responded. "But if any friends were coming she insisted always that the table be especially arranged—sandwiches—and all that," a trifle vaguely. Kitty was growing tired of answering questions which appeared to lead nowhere.

Coroner Penfield picked up several sheets of pa[Pg 68]per and thumbed them over until he came to a penciled memorandum.

"There were two sandwiches and some peaches on the tea table in front of your aunt," he remarked. "Who prepared those sandwiches?"

For the second time Kitty colored hotly. "The sandwiches were left over from some I made on Saturday when Aunt Susan entertained Mrs. Amos Parsons at tea."

"And the peaches—" questioned Penfield.

"I don’t know where Aunt Susan got the peaches," she said, with a quick shrug of her shoulders. "Probably Oscar brought them to her on Sunday morning when I was out. He knew her fondness for them."

"Did you not always know what supplies you had in your larder?"

"Why, no." With a lift of her eyebrows. "Oscar did the marketing."

Penfield laid down the papers in his hand. "Was your aunt in her normal health on Sunday?" he asked.

"Apparently so; I never observed any change in her."

"Had she complained of illness recently?"

"No. On the contrary, she seemed brighter and more cheerful during the past ten days," Kitty answered.

[Pg 69]

"Was she ever despondent?"

"No," promptly. "She always looked on the bright side of things. I—" with a fleeting smile—"I was the pessimist of the family."

"I see." Coroner Penfield regarded her thoughtfully. She looked barely out of her ‘teens,’ and hers was certainly not the face of a pessimist—youth, good health, and good looks did not conspire to a gloomy outlook on life. "Who were your aunt’s intimate friends?"

"Do you mean women of her own age?"

"Yes; of her age, and also of yours."

Kitty debated the question thoughtfully before answering it. "Not many of Aunt Susan’s old friends are alive," she said. "Aunty had just passed her seventieth birthday. She liked all my friends."

"All?"

"Yes." Kitty regarded him steadfastly. She had noted the emphasis on the word "all." A moment passed before the coroner addressed her again.

"Miss Baird, have you unlimited telephone service?"

"Why, yes." Kitty’s tone expressed surprise. "We have always had unlimited service."

Penfield paused and wrote a few lines on his memorandum pad. When he spoke, his voice had gained an added seriousness.

[Pg 70]

"Were you and your aunt always on the best of terms?" he asked.

Kitty sat erect and her hands dropped on the arms of her chair.

"Your question is impertinent," she said cuttingly, and, in spite of himself, Penfield flushed.

"I insist upon an answer," he retorted. "A truthful answer."

"Dr. Penfield!" Kitty rose.

"Be seated, Madam. A witness cannot leave until dismissed by the coroner." Penfield spoke with unwonted severity. "I will change my question. What did you and Miss Baird quarrel about on Sunday?"

"Quarrel?"

"Yes, Madam, quarrel. Your servant, Oscar, overheard you."

Kitty’s bright color had flown. With eyes expressing her scorn, she threw back her head defiantly.

"Ask Oscar," she suggested. "Servants’ gossip may prove diverting—whether truthful or not."

Penfield watched her for an intolerable moment. Kitty’s breath was coming unevenly when he finally spoke.

"You are excused, Miss Baird," he stated briefly, and turned to the Morgue Master. "Summon Mrs. Benjamin Potter, Hume," he directed.

[Pg 71]

Kitty’s sudden dismissal by the coroner was a shock to the reporters as well as to the spectators, and they watched her leave the room with undisguised curiosity and disappointment. Were they to be cheated out of a sensational scene? Why had not Coroner Penfield pressed home his question?

Nina Potter’s entrance cut short speculation and the reporters watched her take her place in the witness chair with renewed hope. Her self-possessed air was a surprise to Ted Rodgers, who secretly considered her a bundle of nerves. She looked extremely pretty and Coroner Penfield watched her admiringly as the oath was being administered. From his seat on the second row, Ben Potter leaned against Rodgers, regardless of the latter’s discomfort, in his endeavor to get an uninterrupted view of his wife.

"Mrs. Potter," Coroner Penfield had again resumed his seat. "What relation are you to Miss Katrina Baird?"

"No relation, except by marriage." Her voice, though low, held a carrying quality, and reached the ears of all in the room. "My husband is her second cousin."

"Have you known her long?"

"Since my marriage to her cousin, six months ago," briefly.

"Did you know her aunt, Miss Susan Baird?"

[Pg 72]

"Oh, yes, very well. We frequently took Sunday dinner with them."

"Did you ever hear Miss Susan Baird express a dislike for any particular person?"

Nina shook her head, while a faint smile drew down the corners of her pretty mouth. "Miss Susan disliked a great many people," she said. "Me, among them. In fact, I never heard her make a complimentary remark about any one."

Penfield looked taken aback. "Miss Baird was eccentric, was she not?"

"Yes, not to say odd."

"Exactly what do you mean?"

Nina raised her eyebrows and pursed up her mouth before answering.

"If Miss Baird was calling upon friends and liked the tea cakes, she would open her bag and pour the cakes into it," she explained. "If she was shopping downtown and grew weary, she would look about and if she saw a motor car belonging to any of her friends waiting at the curb, she would inform the chauffeur he was to take her home. And—" Mrs. Potter’s smile was most engaging, "Miss Baird always got her own way."

"Until her death—" dryly. "It looked as if some one balked her there."

"Yes—and who was that some one?" questioned Mrs. Potter sweetly.

[Pg 73]

Coroner Penfield concealed his annoyance under a pretense of hunting for a pencil among the papers on his table. While listening intently to the dialogue between Penfield and Mrs. Potter, Ted Rodgers had grown aware that Ben Potter was gnawing his nails. Rodgers loathed small noises. He was about to remonstrate when Potter leaned back and whispered in his ear:

"I always told you Nina was clever; bless her heart!"

Rodgers attempted no reply as he waited for Coroner Penfield’s next question.

"Did Miss Kitty Baird spend Sunday night at your apartment, Mrs. Potter?" asked Penfield.

"She did," with quiet emphasis. "She came in time to help me serve tea in my husband’s studio, stayed to dinner, and retired early. We had breakfast at nine o’clock, after which she returned to Georgetown."

"That is all, Mrs. Potter, thank you," and Penfield assisted her down the steps, then turned aside to speak to Hume. "Recall Oscar Jackson," he said.

Mrs. Potter had almost reached the door when it opened to admit Major Leigh Wallace. He failed to see her in his hurry to secure a seat vacated by an elderly woman who was just leaving and brushed by without greeting. Nina’s pretty color had van[Pg 74]ished when she reached her motor parked near the Morgue. She did not start the engine, however, upon entering the car but sat waiting with untiring patience for the inquest to adjourn.

Nina’s exit from the court room had been closely watched by two pairs of eyes. When Rodgers turned to speak to Potter, he found him sitting well back in his chair, and his whole attention centered on Major Leigh Wallace. The latter, entirely oblivious of the identity of the men and women about him, sat regarding the coroner and the jury while his restless fingers rolled a swagger stick held upright between the palms of his hands.

Coroner Penfield hardly allowed the old negro servant time to take his seat again in the witness chair, before addressing him.

"What were Miss Baird and her niece, Miss Kitty, quarreling about on Sunday?" he asked.

"W-w-what yo’ ax?" Oscar’s breath, such as he had left after his exertions in reaching the platform, deserted him, and he stared in dumb surprise at the coroner.

"You have testified that you overheard Miss Baird and her niece quarreling," Penfield spoke slowly and with emphasis. "What were they quarreling about? Come," as the old man remained silent. "We are awaiting your answer."

"Yessir." Oscar ducked his head, and the whites [Pg 75]of his eyes showed plainly as he rolled them in fright, first toward the jury and then toward the coroner. "Yessir, ’twarn’t much of a fuss; leastways, it might o’ been wuss, but Miss Kitty, she done jes’ walk upstairs."

"What was it about?" insisted Penfield.

"Well ’er," Oscar fingered his worn cap nervously. "Miss Susan, she didn’t think much of some of Miss Kitty’s beaux—jes’ didn’t want her to get married nohow—’specially that there Major Wallace. An’ she ups an’ tells Miss Kitty she mus’ get rid o’ him, or she would—"

"Would what—?"

"Git rid o’ him," explained Oscar. "Miss Susan jes’ despised him, even if he did lay himself out to please her."

"Was Major Wallace there on Sunday?" inquired the coroner.

"No, Sah." With vigorous emphasis. "The Major ain’t been there for mos’ two weeks. Miss Susan and him had words."

"Ah, indeed. When?"

"’Bout two weeks ago, p’r’aps longer. Major Wallace kep’ callin’, an’ Miss Susan up an’ tole him Miss Kitty couldn’t be bothered with his company." Oscar came to a breathless pause. He had caught sight of a man leaving his seat and recognized Major Leigh Wallace. The next second the door [Pg 76]had opened and closed behind Wallace’s retreating figure.

Penfield’s stern voice recalled Oscar’s wandering wits.

"Did you do the marketing on Saturday, Oscar?" he asked.

"Yes, Sah." Oscar spoke more cheerfully at the change of the topic.

"Did you buy some peaches for Miss Baird?"

"Deed, I didn’t, Sah. Miss Susan hadn’t no money to buy peaches at dis time o’ year," Oscar’s voice expressed astonishment. "Dis hyar month am March."

"We have them from California." Penfield was growing impatient, and his manner stiffened as he faced the old negro. "Who purchased the peaches which Miss Baird was eating just before she died?"

"I dunno, Sah; honest to God, I dunno." Oscar shook a puzzled head. "I was flabbergasted to see them peaches on the tea table. They weren’t in the house when I was gettin’ dinner, an’ they weren’t there when I left after servin’ dinner."

"Is that so?" Penfield stared at Oscar. The black face of the negro was as shiny as a billiard ball and about as expressionless. "That is all, Oscar, you may retire."

Hardly waiting for the servant to descend the steps, Penfield turned to the deputy coroner whose [Pg 77]busy pen had been transcribing the notes of the inquest.

"Dr. Fisher, take the stand," he directed, and waited in silence while he was being sworn.

"You performed the autopsy, Doctor?" he asked.

"I did, Sir, in the presence of the Morgue Master and Dr. Leonard McLean," responded the deputy coroner.

"State the results of the autopsy."

"We found on investigation of the gastric contents that death was due to prussic acid, the most active of poisons," Fisher replied, with blunt directness. "There was no other cause of death, as from the condition of her body, we found Miss Baird, in spite of her age, did not suffer from any organic disease."

The silence lengthened in the court room. Penfield did not seem in haste to put the next question and the suspense deepened.

"Can you estimate how long a time must have elapsed between Miss Baird taking the poison and her death?" he asked finally.

"Between two and five minutes, judging from the amount of poison in her system," responded Fisher.

"Can you tell us how the poison was administered, Doctor?" questioned Penfield. "Did you analyze the contents of the tea pot and cup?"

"Yes. No trace of poison was in either the cup [Pg 78]or the teapot." Fisher spoke with deliberation, conscious that his words were listened to with breathless interest. "There was on her plate a half-eaten peach on which still remained enough poison to kill several persons."

Penfield broke the tense pause.

"Have you any idea, Doctor, how the poison got on the peach?"

"On examination we found that drops of prussic acid still remained on the fruit knife used to cut the peach." Fisher hesitated a brief instant, then continued, "The poison had been put on one side of the knife-blade only."

"You mean—"

"That whoever ate the other portion of the peach was not poisoned."

[Pg 79]

CHAPTER VII
MRS. PARSONS HAS CALLERS
CORONER’S INQUEST RETURNS
OPEN VERDICT

Miss Susan Baird Killed by Party or
Parties Unknown

Mrs. Amos Parsons laid down her evening newspaper and stared at her own reflection in the upright, silver-framed mirror standing on the table by her side. So absorbing were her thoughts that she did not observe a velvet-footed servant remove the tea tray and carry off the soiled cups and saucers. The French clock on the high mantel of the drawing room had ticked away fully ten minutes before she stirred. With an indolent gesture of her hands, eminently characteristic, she dropped them in her lap and let her body relax against the tufted chair back. Her mirror told her that she needed rest; the deep shadows under her eyes and her unusual pallor both emphasized the same story. She was very, very weary.

[Pg 80]

"Beg pardon, Madam." The velvet-footed butler was back in the room again, silver salver in hand. "A gentleman to see you."

Mrs. Parsons picked up the small visiting card and adjusting her lorgnette, inspected the engraved lettering it bore.

MR. BENJAMIN POTTER

Cosmos Club

"Where is Mr. Potter?" she asked.

"In the reception room downstairs, madam. He said he was in a great hurry, Madam," as she remained silent. "He asked particularly to see you."

"Very well; show him up. Wait—" as the servant started for the doorway. "Bring Mr. Potter upstairs in the lift."

"Very good, Madam," and, a second later, Mrs. Parsons was alone in her drawing room.

Leaning forward, she looked about the beautifully furnished room, then, convinced that she was its only occupant, she opened her vanity case and selecting a lip-stick, applied it, and added a touch of rouge. Lastly a powder-puff removed all outward traces of restless hours and weary waiting. She [Pg 81]had just time to slip the puff and lip-stick inside her vanity box before the portières parted and Ben Potter hastened into the room. He stopped his rapid stride on catching sight of her and advanced more leisurely.

"Good evening, Cecilia," he said, and paused in front of her.

She appeared not to see his half-extended hand, as she laid down her cigarette.

"Ah, Ben," she remarked dryly. "I see that you still believe in the efficacy of a bribe."

"If it is big enough," composedly. "Your servant said you had denied yourself to callers so—voilà tout."

"And why this desire to see me?"

Potter did not reply at once; instead, he scrutinized her intently. She was well worth a second glance. Her type of face belonged to the Eighteenth Century, and as she sat in her high-backed chair, her prematurely grey hair, artistically arranged, in pretty contrast to her delicately arched eyebrows, she resembled a French marquise of the court of Louis XIV. She bore Potter’s penetrating gaze with undisturbed composure. He was the first to shift his glance.

"Suppose I take a chair and we talk things over," he suggested. "You are not very cordial-to-night."

Mrs. Parsons smiled ironically. "Take a chair [Pg 82]by all means; that one by the door looks substantial. Now," as he dragged it over and placed it directly in front of her. "I will repeat my question—why do you wish to see me?"

"You ask that—and a newspaper by your side!" Potter pointed contemptuously at the paper lying on the floor. "Have you seen Kitty Baird since the inquest?"

Mrs. Parsons shook her head. "There was hardly time for her to get here; besides she must be very weary, not to say—unstrung." She held out her cigarette case, but Potter waved it away, making no effort politely to restrain his impatience. "So dear Miss Susan Baird was poisoned after all."

"And why ‘after all’?" swiftly. "Why ‘dear Miss Susan’?"

A shrug of her shapely shoulders answered him. "You are always so intense, Ben," she remarked. "Why not ‘dear Miss Susan’? Had you any reason to dislike your cousin?"

"Had any one any reason to like her?" he asked gruffly. "You don’t need to be told that." His smile had little mirth in it. "The poor soul is dead—murdered." He looked at her queerly. "How much does Kitty see of Major Leigh Wallace?"

Mrs. Parsons selected another cigarette with care. "So that is the reason I am honored by a visit from you." Tossing back her head, she inspected him [Pg 83]from head to foot. "How am I qualified to answer your question? I am not Kitty’s guardian."

"No, but you are her employer," with quiet emphasis. "And Major Wallace is a frequent caller here."

"Is he?" Her smile was enigmatical. "May I ask the reason of your sudden interest in Major Wallace?"

Potter colored hotly. "That is my affair," he retorted. "Were you at the Baird inquest this morning?"

"No."

"Have you read the newspaper account of it?"

"Yes."

"And what is your opinion?"

She shook her head. "I have formed none."

"Oh, come!" Potter smiled skeptically, then frowned. "Kitty must be safeguarded," he announced with gruff abruptness.

"From Major Wallace?—"

"Perhaps—"

She considered him a moment in silence. Potter’s big frame did not show to best advantage in his sack suit which betrayed the need of sponging and pressing. The naturalist seldom gave a thought to his personal appearance.

"How is your wife?" she asked.

Potter started a trifle at the abrupt question.

[Pg 84]

"Quite well," he replied. "But a bit fagged after the inquest. She was one of the witnesses, you know."

"And you—"

"I was not called by the coroner," shortly. "Ted Rodgers and I sat together in the court room. He’s a good chap, Ted—promised Kitty to help trace her aunt’s murderer."

The pupils of Mrs. Parsons’ eyes contracted. "I did not realize that they were on such terms of intimacy," she remarked, and her voice had grown sharper. "Do you think Mr. Rodgers will have a difficult task?"

Potter ran his fingers through his untidy grey hair. "That remains to be seen," he replied. "So far, all that we know is that my cousin, Miss Susan Baird, was poisoned with prussic acid."

"Is that all the police know?" she questioned rapidly.

He did not answer immediately, his attention apparently centered on the newspaper which lay folded so that the headlines were in view:

Coroner’s Inquest Returns Open Verdict

"It is all that the police will admit knowing," he said at last. "I must remind you that you have not [Pg 85]answered my question: how often does Kitty see Major Wallace?"

"I am unable to tell you." There was a touch of insolence in her manner and his eyes sparkled with anger. "I do not keep tab on Kitty—" their glances crossed—"and I don’t intend to."

Potter hesitated a second, then rose. "It was good of you to see me," he announced. His tone was perfunctory. "My interest in Kitty prompted the visit." He stooped over and picked up a glove which had slipped from his restless fingers to the floor. "Good-by. Don’t trouble to ring for James; I know my way out."

But Mrs. Parsons was already half across the room and her finger touched the electric button with some force. James was a trifle out of breath when he reached them.

"Take Mr. Potter down in the lift," she directed. "Good evening, Ben," and with a slight, graceful gesture, she dismissed him.

Once more back in her chair Mrs. Parsons settled down in comfort and permitted her thoughts to wander far afield. It was not often that she allowed herself to dwell on the past.

"So Ted Rodgers is taking a hand in the game," she murmured, unconscious that she spoke aloud. "And Ben Potter is interested in—Kitty." Putting back her head, she laughed heartily. She was still [Pg 86]chuckling to herself when James, the butler, came in to announce dinner.

Dinner with Mrs. Parsons was a formal affair even when alone, and she looked with approval at the spotless linen, the burnished silver, and glittering glass. She thoroughly appreciated her butler’s taste in table decoration. Domestic troubles, which vexed other women, never touched her household. She had one theory which she always put into practice—to pay her servants just a little more than her neighbors gave their domestics, and it was seldom that they left her employ.

Washington society had found that Mrs. Parsons was wealthy enough to indulge in her whims, and, bringing, as she did, letters of introduction from far-off California to influential residents of the national Capital, she had been entertained at houses to which newcomers frequently waited for years to gain the entree. Well gowned, handsome rather than pretty, quick of wit, Mrs. Parsons soon attained a place for herself in the kaleidoscopic life of the cosmopolitan city, and, giving up her suite of rooms at the New Willard had, three months before, purchased a house on fashionable Wyoming Avenue.

On taking possession of what she termed her maisonnette, Mrs. Parsons decided that she had need of a social secretary. Kitty Baird had been highly recommended for the post by Charles Craige, and, [Pg 87]after much urging on the part of both Mrs. Parsons and her godfather, Kitty had resigned her clerkship in the Department of State, which she had held during the World War, and taken up her secretarial duties.

And Kitty had been of genuine aid to her employer, as Mrs. Parsons acknowledged to herself if to no one else—she was chary of spoken praise. Kitty had not only an accurate knowledge of social life in Washington, having enjoyed belleship since her first "tea dance" at Rauscher’s which one of her aunt’s old friends had given in her honor, but possessed unbounded tact and a kindly heart. Her aunt, Miss Susan Baird, had seen to it that she was well educated and thoroughly grounded in French and German. Having a natural gift for languages, Kitty had put her early training to good account in her war work as a translator and code expert.

To James’ secret distress, Mrs. Parsons partook but indifferently of the deliciously cooked dinner, even refusing dessert which, to his mind, was inexplicable.

"Has Miss Kitty Baird telephoned at any time to-day?" she asked, laying down her napkin.

"No, Madam." James concealed his surprise. It was not like Mrs. Parsons to repeat herself, and to his best recollection, and he had a good memory, she had asked that same question at least a dozen times. [Pg 88]"Will you have coffee served in the drawing room, Madam?"

"I don’t care for coffee to-night, thanks." Mrs. Parsons picked up her scarf and rose. "Tell Anton that if any one calls this evening, I am at home."

"Very good, Madam," and James held back the portières for her as she left the room.

Mrs. Parsons did not return to the drawing room: instead she made her way to the "den" at the end of the hall, a pretty square room, which served as a lounge and library. Once there she paused by the telephone stand and laid her hand on the instrument.

"West, 789." She was forced to repeat the number several times before Central got it correctly.

There was a brief wait, then came the answer, "Line disconnected, ma’am," and she heard Central ring off. Mrs. Parsons put down the instrument in bewildered surprise. "Why had Kitty Baird’s telephone been disconnected?" She was still considering the puzzle as she rearranged some "bridesmaids’ roses" in a vase. By it lay a note in Charles Craige’s fine penmanship. Picking up the note, Mrs. Parsons read it for perhaps the twentieth time.

It ran:

[Pg 89]

My precious Cecelia:

I am disconsolate that I cannot dine with you to-night. I have promised to see Kitty—poor girl, she needs all the sympathy and help we can give her. Miss me just a little and I shall be contented. My thoughts are with you always.

Ever faithfully,

Charles Craige.

"Beg pardon, Madam." James the obsequious stood in the room, card tray in hand. "Major Leigh Wallace is waiting for you in the drawing room."

Mrs. Parsons folded the note and slipped it inside her knitting bag. "Ask Major Wallace to come here," she said, pausing to switch on a floor lamp, the light from which cast a becoming glow on her as she selected a chair beside it, and took up her embroidery.

"Ah, Leigh, good evening," she exclaimed a moment later as the young officer stood by her. "Have you come to make your peace with me?"

"In what way have I offended?" Wallace asked.

"You were so rude to one of my guests at my tea yesterday." Mrs. Parsons watched him as he made himself comfortable in a dainty settee under the lamp.

"Rude to one of your guests? Impossible!" [Pg 90]ejaculated Wallace in surprise. "To whom do you refer?"

"Nina Potter." Mrs. Parsons had not taken her eyes off him, and she caught the sudden shifting of his gaze. "Why are you and she no longer friendly?"

"You are mistaken." Wallace spoke stiffly. "We are—I am still a great admirer of hers—"

"And Kitty—"

Wallace flushed to the roots of his sandy hair. "Kitty never had very much use for me," he admitted, rather bitterly. "She—she—seems to be tired—"

"Of being a cat’s paw?"

"Mrs. Parsons!" Wallace was on his feet, his eyes snapping with anger.

"Don’t go," Mrs. Parsons’ smile was ingratiating. "Forgive me if I blunder, Leigh. Sometimes an outsider sees most of the game. Will you take a friendly piece of advice—"

"Surely," but Wallace was slow in reseating himself.

"Then avoid Ben Potter." Mrs. Parsons picked up her neglected embroidery, and did not trouble to glance at her guest.

Wallace’s attempt at a laugh was something of a failure. "I saw Potter an hour ago at the club," he volunteered. "He told me that he and his wife were leaving for New York to-night."

[Pg 91]

"Indeed." Mrs. Parsons held her needle nearer the light and threaded it with deft fingers. "Is Kitty Baird going with them?"

"I believe not." Wallace moved a trifle and shaded his face with his hand. "I’ve just come from ‘Rose Hill.’"

"And how is Kitty? Did you see her?" Mrs. Parsons spoke with such rapidity that her questions ran together.

"No." Wallace compressed his lips. "She sent down word that she begged to be excused."

"Oh!" Mrs. Parsons lowered her embroidery and regarded her companion. He looked wretchedly ill, and the haggard lines were deeper than ever. For a man of his height and breadth of shoulder, he seemed to have shrunken, for his clothes appeared to hang upon him. Dwelling on his ill-health would not tend to lessen Wallace’s nervous condition, and Mrs. Parsons omitted personalities. "Were you at the Baird inquest?" she inquired.

"Yes, that is, I got there late—" stumbling somewhat in his speech. "Why don’t you go and see Kitty, Cecelia? That house of hers is sort of ghastly—"

"For any one who suffers from nerves," she put in, and he flushed at the irony of her tone, "Kitty has plenty of courage. I—" she smiled. "I am in[Pg 92]clined to think that Kitty has inherited some of her aunt’s prejudices—"

"She couldn’t inherit any likes—that abominable aunt of hers hated everybody." Wallace spoke with such bitter feeling that Mrs. Parsons restrained a smile with difficulty.

"Poor Kitty," her tone was full of sympathy. "I am glad she has Ted Rodgers to lean on."

Wallace flushed angrily. "He’s the one who has made all the trouble," he began. "If it hadn’t been for his—"

"What?" as Wallace came to an abrupt halt.

"Oh, nothing." Wallace beat the devil’s tattoo on the chair arm. "I must be going, Cecelia. It’s a beastly bore having to turn in early, but I must obey the doctor’s orders."

"You certainly should take better care of yourself." Mrs. Parsons walked with Wallace to the door of the room. The house was an English basement in design, and as they came to the top of the flight of steps leading to the ground floor, Wallace held out his hand. It felt feverish to the touch and Mrs. Parsons regarded him with growing concern. "Stop and see Dr. McLean on your way home," she advised.

"I’m all right." Wallace laughed recklessly. "Don’t worry, I take a lot of killing. Good night." And, squeezing her hand until the pressure forced [Pg 93]her rings into the tender skin, he released it and ran down the steps.

Mrs. Parsons lingered long enough to hear James assisting Wallace into his overcoat and then went thoughtfully into her drawing room. The footman had left one of the window shades up and Mrs. Parsons paused to pull it down. The street was well lighted from the electric lamp opposite her doorway, and, as she stood idly looking out of the window, she saw Major Leigh Wallace start to cross the street, hesitate at the curb, turn to his left and walk eastward. He had gone but a short distance when Mrs. Parsons saw a man slip out from the doorway of the next house and start down the street after Wallace. Halfway down the block Wallace crossed the street and without glancing backward continued on his way, his shadow at his heels.

Mrs. Parsons watched them out of sight, her eyes big with suppressed excitement. When she finally pulled down the window shade her hand was not quite steady.

[Pg 94]

CHAPTER VIII
THE CASE OF THE GILA MONSTER
Unaware that he had a place in Mrs. Parsons’ meditations as well as in her conversation with Major Leigh Wallace, Ted Rogers parked his car near the entrance to "Rose Hill." His ring at the front door bell was answered by Mandy, the ebony shadow of Oscar, her husband.

"Kin yo’ see Miss Kitty?" She repeated the question after him. "Why, I ’spect yo’ kin, Mister Rodgers. Jes’ step inside, Sah, an’ I’ll go find Miss Kitty."

Closing the front door and putting up the night latch with much jingling, Mandy led Rodgers down the hall to the entrance of the library.

"The lamps am lighted in hyar," she said by way of explanation. "Ole Miss never used to let Miss Kitty have a light in de odder rooms on dis flo’, cept when Oscar was a-servin’ dinner. An’ we all got so we jes’ never thought o’ carryin’ a lamp into [Pg 95]de parlor. Make yo’self comfortable, Sah, I’ll tell Miss Kitty an’ she’ll be down terec’ly."

With a word of thanks Rodgers passed the old servant and entered the library. The light from the two oil lamps was supplemented by a cheerful fire in the brick chimney at the farther end of the room, and its cheerful glow did much to dispel the dreary atmosphere which prevailed.

Rodgers did not at once sit down. Instead he paused in the center of the library and gravely regarded the tea table and the throne-shaped chair where he had frequently seen Miss Susan Baird sitting when entertaining guests at tea. He had a retentive memory, and as his eyes roved about the library, he pieced out the scene of the discovery of the dead woman as described on the witness stand by Inspector Mitchell.

As far as Rodgers could judge, no change had been made in the room, except in the arrangement of the tea table. The soiled dishes and tea cups had been removed, the tea service cleaned and put back, and the fruit dish, of Royal Dresden china of ancient pattern, was empty. Forgetful of the passing time, he wandered about examining with keen attention the fine oil paintings of dead and gone Bairds, the camels’ hair shawls which had been converted into portières, the Persian rugs on the hardwood floor. [Pg 96]What matter that all showed traces of wear and tear? The room was cleanliness personified.

Genteel poverty—his surroundings cried of it. Rodgers thought, with a tightening of his heart-strings, of Kitty’s brave endeavor to keep up the old home and provide her aunt with every comfort within her means. And her aunt had been murdered. Murdered! He shook his head in bewilderment. What possible motive could have inspired such a crime? Who would murder a poverty-stricken old woman? Avarice—where was the gain? Revenge—for what? Hate—why hate a feeble old woman? There remained robbery as a possible motive. Could it be that?

Rodgers crossed over to the "Dutch" door and examined it with interest. Neither its lock nor its solid panels gave indication of having been forced open. From the door his attention passed to the three small windows, placed just under the flooring of the gallery; they appeared tightly closed and resisted his efforts to move them. The library gained its chief light in the daytime from the skylight and the windows opening upon the gallery.

Turning around, Rodgers stood hesitating, his head slightly bent to catch the faintest sound. He had heard, some moments before, Mandy’s halting footsteps as she came limping down the staircase, then along the hall to the basement stairs, and the [Pg 97]shutting of the door after her descending figure. He looked at his watch; ten minutes had elapsed since his arrival and still Kitty had not appeared. Surely she would have sent word by Mandy if she had not wished him to wait? He took from his pocket a crumpled note and smoothed it out. The act had become a habit. He did not need to read the few lines penned on the paper—he knew them by heart.

Come to-night. I must see you. K. B.

He had obeyed the summons eagerly. Kitty had asked him to find out who killed her aunt. And the inquest had brought out what?—that Miss Susan Baird had come to her death through poison administered by a party or parties unknown. It had also disclosed the fact that the last person to see Miss Susan alive was Kitty Baird, and Oscar had testified that aunt and niece had quarreled that fatal Sunday afternoon—over Major Leigh Wallace. Rodgers whitened at the thought. Were Kitty and Wallace really engaged, as he had been given to understand by no less a person than Ben Potter? If so, he cut a sorry figure dancing attendance upon Kitty. She had grown to be all in all to him. It was a case of the moth and the candle. Rodgers smiled wryly; he could not tear himself away, even if he would, and she had asked him to aid her! [Pg 98]Rodgers squared his shoulders. As soon as the mystery of Miss Susan Baird’s death was solved, he would leave Washington and give Wallace a clear field. Kitty was entitled to happiness.

Tired of inaction, harassed by his thought, Rodgers tramped about the room and finally paused in front of the fireplace. Mouchette, Kitty’s Angora cat, rolled over at his approach and yawned sleepily. She had awakened at his entrance, but the comfort of an excellent dinner and the heat of the fire had proven too strong to keep her awake, and she had curled up again and gone to sleep.

The hearth was set far back and two benches were framed on either hand by the walls of the chimney. They looked inviting, and, after giving Mouchette a final pat, Rodgers dropped down on one of the benches, his broad back braced across the corner of the wall, while his long legs were stretched out toward the fire burning so briskly on the hearth. He watched the play of the firelight with unconscious intensity, his mind picturing Kitty’s alluring personality. A log broke and as the burning embers struck the hearth, sparks flew out and upward. One landed on the bench on which Rodgers was sitting and he leaned forward to knock it back upon the hearth. As his hand struck the bench a glancing blow, he felt the wood give and the next instant he was gazing into a small hole.

[Pg 99]

Rodgers stared at it in deep surprise. Bending closer he saw that he must have touched a concealed spring which released the trap-door. It was not a large cavity into which he peered, hardly a foot deep and about six inches square, or so he judged in the fitful glow of the fire. He sat for a moment perfectly still, then drawing out his matchbox, struck a light and held it carefully so that its rays fell directly into the small hole. It was empty except for a medium-sized brass key to which was tied a small tag. Bending nearer, he made out the scrawled lines with some difficulty:

This key unlocks the inside drawer of the highboy in the blue room on the fourth floor.

A bell reverberating through the silent house caused Rodgers to spring up and look into the hall, in time to see Mandy emerge from behind the door leading to the basement stairs and make her way to the front of the house. A murmur of voices reached Rodgers, then a firm tread sounded down the uncarpeted hall, and parting the portières Charles Craige walked into the library.

"Hello, Rodgers," he exclaimed in hearty greeting. "Mandy told me that you were here. Have you seen Kitty?"

"Not yet." Rodgers shook Craige’s hand with [Pg 100]vigor. He had grown to like and admire the brilliant lawyer whose many acts of kindness had added to the enjoyment of his visit. Besides, and Rodgers’ eyes glowed, was he not Kitty’s godfather!

"Trust Kitty to keep a man waiting," and Craige smiled as he spoke, then grew grave. "This is a devilish bad business—not to say shocking. Poor Susan—the last person in the world whose death would have been of benefit to any one, and yet she was murdered."

"If we are to believe the medical evidence, yes," replied Rodgers. "Poison can be administered with murderous intent, but we must also remember that it can be taken with the intent to commit suicide."

"True." Craige chose a seat at some distance from the throne-shaped chair. "But I cannot associate either murder or suicide with Susan. I tell you, Rodgers, Susan had an intense desire to live, and I can conceive of no one wishing for her death sufficiently to face the gallows."

"But the fact remains that she either did away with herself or was cold-bloodedly murdered," retorted Rodgers.

Craige nodded his head moodily. "If murder, it was cold-blooded, premeditated murder," he agreed. "Hush, here comes Kitty."

A door had opened on the gallery and Kitty appeared from her bedroom, stood for a moment [Pg 101]hesitating, then hurrying forward she almost ran down the short flight of steps to the library. She paused by the newel post as both men advanced to meet her.

"I am so glad you are here," she exclaimed, extending her hands impulsively to each. "It has been so dreadful—alone."

Craige laid a sympathetic hand on her shoulder and patted her gently as he kissed her. "We understand," he said. "Now, what can we do for you?"

Rodgers, who still held Kitty’s hand in both of his, released it reluctantly. He was slow of speech, but his eyes, meeting Kitty’s gaze, conveyed a message all their own. As Kitty preceded them across the library, a warm blush mantled her cheeks.

"Sit here, Miss Baird." Rodgers placed a chair for her near the chimney while Craige pulled forward two others. Grateful for the warmth from the fire, for her bedroom was insufficiently heated, Kitty stretched out her hands to the blaze.

"Why is your telephone disconnected, Kitty?" asked Craige, after a brief silence which neither Kitty or Rodgers made any attempt to break.

"We were deluged with calls," she explained. "Especially the newspaper reporters." She shivered slightly. "They gave Mandy no rest."

"But to cut yourself off from your friends, Kitty, [Pg 102]was that wise?" chided Craige gently. "No one could reach you—I tried and failed."

"It did not stop your coming over to ask for me," she put in gratefully. "Ben and Nina Potter stopped for a second before dinner. They left for New York to-night."

"Indeed?" Craige frowned. "They should have remained here with you," noting with concern the dark shadows under her eyes and the forlorn droop to her usually erect shoulders. "You must not stay here alone."

"But I am not alone," she protested. "Dear, faithful Mandy is with me."

Craige shook his head, unsatisfied. "Mandy is an ignorant colored woman, old at that," he remarked. "You must have companionship—woman’s companionship of your own class. Why not ask Cecilia Parsons?"

"Oh, I would not think of asking her," Kitty objected quickly. "She is so—so sensitive, so—" hunting about for the proper word. "Oh, the house, all this—would get frightfully on her nerves."

At mention of Mrs. Parsons’ name, Rodgers glanced from one to the other, finally letting his gaze rest on the lawyer’s kindly, clever face. He had heard the rumor connecting the pretty widow’s name with Charles Craige, and that reports of their engagement persisted, in spite of Mrs. Parsons’ [Pg 103]laughing denial and Craige’s skillfully evasive answers to all questions on the subject.

"As you please, Kitty," replied Craige. "But I think that you are wrong not to ask Mrs. Parsons. She would not hesitate to tell you if she did not wish to come. She is frankness itself."

Kitty raised her eyebrows and a ghost of a smile crossed her lips. "Mrs. Parsons is always most kind," she remarked, "but I prefer not to tax her friendship."

The look Craige cast in her direction was a bit sharp, and with some abruptness he changed the subject.

"Were you wise to have your aunt’s body put in the vault this afternoon, Kitty?" he asked. "Did you not overtax your strength? You look so utterly weary."

"I am stronger than I appear." Kitty passed her hand across her eyes. "I could see no object in waiting. Coroner Penfield suggested that we have simple funeral ceremonies immediately after the inquest. I tried to get word to you, but failed. It was but prolonging the agony to wait—" with a catch in her throat, "there was nothing to be gained by waiting. It would not bring her back. Oh, poor Aunt Susan!" And bowing her head Kitty gave vent to the tears she had held back for many, many hours.

[Pg 104]

Rodgers watched her in unhappy silence. Could he find nothing to say—do nothing to comfort her? He half rose impulsively to his feet—caught Craige’s eye and sat down again. Craige leaned forward and put his arms about the weeping girl and soothed her with loving words. When she grew more composed, he rose and paced up and down the library.

"Had I not better call Mandy and let her put you to bed, Kitty?" he asked, stopping by her chair. "You can see us to-morrow when you are more composed."

"No, wait." Kitty sat up and attempted to smile. "I am all right, now. Is it true, as the papers said, that Aunt Susan died from poison placed on a peach she was eating?"

"If we are to believe the medical evidence, yes. Chemical tests proved that prussic acid still remained on one side of the blade of the fruit knife used to cut the peach."

Kitty shuddered. "Who could have planned so diabolical a murder?" she demanded.

"That is for us to find out." Kitty looked up quickly at sound of Rodgers’ clear voice. "Tell me, Miss Baird, have you no idea where the peaches came from?"

"Not the slightest," she shook her head. "I am positive there were no peaches in the house when I left here Sunday afternoon. They are very ex[Pg 105]pensive at this season of the year and," with downright frankness, "we could not afford to buy them, although Aunt Susan was inordinately fond of them."

"Some one must have sent the peaches who was aware of your aunt’s liking for the fruit," Craige remarked thoughtfully. "Had she spoken of peaches to any of your friends lately?"

"Friends!" Kitty looked at him with dawning horror. "You don’t think—you don’t mean that a friend killed Aunt Susan?" She thrust out her hands as if warding off some frightful nightmare. "No, no. It was a housebreaker—a common, ordinary housebreaker."

"It may have been a housebreaker," agreed Rodgers, soothingly. "But it was one with the knowledge that the flavor of a peach would disguise the taste of prussic acid."

"Kitty," Craige spoke with deep seriousness. "You must realize that this murder of your aunt was a deliberately planned crime. Burglars don’t go around carrying bottles of prussic acid in their pockets. Also, there is one point of especial significance—but one side of the knife-blade had poison on it."

"You mean—?" She questioned him with frightened eyes.

"That some one whom your aunt knew must have [Pg 106]been taking tea with her, and in administering the poison saw to it that his side of the peach was harmless," Craige responded.

Kitty looked at the two men dumbly. Craige had put into words what she had dimly realized.

"It is dreadful!" she gasped. "What possible motive could have inspired her murder?"

Craige looked at Rodgers, then drawing out his leather wallet he selected a newspaper clipping and ran his eyes down the printed column.

"Tell us, Kitty," and his voice was coaxing. "Is it true that you and your aunt quarreled on Sunday as Oscar testified?"

Kitty blanched and her eyes shifted from Rodgers to the glowing embers on the hearth.

"It wasn’t a quarrel," she declared faintly. "Aunt Susan and I had a few words—"

"Yes," prompted Craige. "A few words about what?"

"About money matters." Kitty did not look at either man. Rodgers’ heart sank. Oscar had also testified that the quarrel was about Major Leigh Wallace. Could it be that Kitty was prevaricating? He put the thought from him. Oscar must have lied.

"About money matters," Craig repeated, returning the clipping and wallet to his pocket. "Then [Pg 107]why did you not tell that to Coroner Penfield when he questioned you in the witness stand?"

"It wasn’t his business—it had nothing to do with Aunt Susan’s death," she stated incoherently. "And," with a slow, painful blush, "our poverty, our painful economies were bad enough without discussing them in public."

"Oh!" Craige cast a doubtful look at Rodgers, but the latter’s expressionless face gave the keen-witted lawyer no clue as to his opinion of Kitty’s statement. "Kitty, were you your aunt’s nearest relative?"

"Yes. Ben Potter is a second cousin, I believe." Kitty paused. "Ben has not been here very much lately."

"Since his marriage, you mean?" asked Craige.

Kitty glanced up and then away. "Yes. Aunt Susan poked fun at him at the time of his marriage, said she did not care for ‘poor whites,’ and Ben was very angry."

"Was there ever an open quarrel?"

"Oh, no. Outwardly, they were good friends; and they dined here usually once a month," Kitty explained. "But relations were strained a little bit."

"Could you not make Ben and Nina a visit when they return from New York?" asked Craige.

"I can, if I wish," with quick resentment. "But I prefer to stay in this house."

[Pg 108]

"Just a moment, Kitty," Craige held up a cautioning hand. "This house belonged to your aunt, did it not?"

"Yes. But I—" she hesitated. "I ran the house with the money I earned. I can still do that."

"True, if the house is left to you." Kitty stared at her godfather aghast. "Did your aunt leave her will in your care?"

"No."

"Did she ever speak to you of a will?"

"No; she never mentioned the subject."

Craige looked at her thoughtfully. "It may be that your aunt made no will," he said finally. "I transacted such legal matters as she brought to me, but I never drew up a will."

"But as Miss Baird is her aunt’s nearest living relative, would she not inherit her aunt’s property?" asked Rodgers.

"Possibly; but Ben Potter may claim his share of the estate," the lawyer pointed out.

"Estate!" broke in Kitty with a nervous laugh. "Poor Aunt Susan had only this house and its dilapidated furniture. Ben is welcome to his share."

"Just a moment," Craige interrupted in his turn. "Your aunt must have left a will or some legal document regarding the disposal of her property. She had a great habit of tucking her papers away. You recollect our search for the tax receipts, Kitty?"

[Pg 109]

Kitty’s face brightened into one of her mischievous smiles, while her eyes twinkled.

"Aunt Susan was secretive," she acknowledged. "It was a case of searching for lump sugar even, when she was in the mood for hiding things."

"Hiding!" Rodgers rose to his feet and his eyes sought the bench where he had found the trap-door. "Come here, Miss Baird," and he beckoned them to approach. "I opened that by accident just before Mr. Craige arrived—see."

Kitty slipped her hand inside the cavity and drew out the key.

"I remember the trap-door," she said. "If you press on a spring concealed in one of the boards, the door drops inward. But what does this tag mean?" and they read the words aloud:

This key unlocks the inside drawer of the highboy in the blue room on the fourth floor.

"Let us go and see what it means," suggested Rodgers, and Craige nodded his agreement.

"Lead the way, Kitty," he added. "Do you need a lamp?"

"There is a candlestick outside my bedroom door, and we can light the gas jets as we go through the halls," she replied.

Pausing only long enough to pick up several small [Pg 110]match boxes, she led the way out of the library and up the long staircase. A light was burning dimly in the first hall and Rodgers turned it up before following Kitty and her godfather to the next story. From there they hurried to the fourth floor, Kitty’s candle but intensifying the darkness.

The stuffy atmosphere of a room long unused greeted them as they entered a large square room facing the front of the house. With the aid of her candle, Kitty located the one gas jet and by its feeble rays they looked about them. The room evidently obtained its name from its faded blue wall paper. The old four-post bed and the massive mahogany furniture belonged to another and richer generation, but Rodgers had no time to investigate its beauties, his attention being focussed on a highboy standing near one of the windows. Kitty again read the message on the tag before approaching the highboy.

"The inside drawer," she repeated. "What does she mean?"

For answer Rodgers pulled open the nearest drawer. It was filled with old finery, and after tumbling its contents about, Kitty closed it.

"Try the next," suggested Craige. The second drawer proved equally unproductive of result, and it was with growing discouragement that they went through the next three and found them also unin[Pg 111]teresting. On pulling out the last drawer Kitty found it arranged as a writing desk.

"I have seen this kind before," Rodgers felt along the front of the drawer; there was a faint click and the front woodwork swung aside, disclosing an inside drawer.

Kitty slipped the key she was carrying into the lock. It turned with a slight squeaking sound, showing the need of oil, and Kitty drew open the drawer. Inside it lay another brass key also tagged.

"What does it say?" she asked as Rodgers picked it up.

He read:

This key unlocks the lower left hand drawer of the sideboard in the dining room.

"Is that your aunt’s handwriting?"

"Yes." Kitty looked as mystified as she felt. "Shall we go downstairs and look in the sideboard?"

"Of course." As he spoke, Craige started for the door. It took them but a few minutes to reach the dining room, and it was with a sense of rising excitement that Kitty unlocked the "lower left hand drawer" of the sideboard.

"Good gracious! Another key!" she gasped, and held it up so that both men could read the tag tied to it.

[Pg 112]

The message ran:

This key unlocks the linen trunk in the attic.

"Upon my word your aunt outdid herself!" exclaimed Craige. "Come, Kitty, as long as we have started this investigation, we must complete it."

Not having anticipated having to return to the top of the house, Rodgers had carefully put out all the lights, and relighting the gas jets delayed them somewhat. Kitty’s candle had almost burned itself out when they entered the cold and unfriendly attic. No gas pipes had been placed there, and Rodgers was thankful that his electric torch, which he carried when motoring at night, was in his pocket. By its rays Kitty recognized the old-fashioned brass-bound hair trunk in which her aunt had kept some precious pieces of hand woven linen.

Crouching down on the floor with Rodgers holding his torch so that she could see the best, Kitty turned the key in the lock and threw back the lid of the trunk. On the spotless white linen lay a small brass key with a tag twice its size. The message it bore read:

This key unlocks the case of the Gila monster.

[Pg 113]

"The case of the Gila monster," repeated Rodgers. "What did your aunt mean?"

"I know!" Kitty clapped her hands. "Ben Potter spent the summer with Aunt Susan two years ago and he left one of his cases here. It contains the plaster cast of a Gila monster."

"And where is the case?" asked Craige.

"In the library."

"Then let us go there at once. You will catch cold up in this icy place, Kitty." Observing that she was shivering, Craige closed the trunk with a resounding bang, drew out the key, and preceded them out of the attic.

Back in the library again, Kitty walked over to a Japanese screen, which cut off one corner of the room, and pushing it aside, disclosed a low oak case on which rested a glass box. Inside the box lay the cast of a Gila monster. The poisonous lizard looked so alive that Rodgers was startled for a moment. Bending closer, he viewed its wedge-shaped head and black and yellow mottled body with deep interest.

"So that is the end of our search!" Kitty laughed ruefully. "Aunt Susan had a remarkable sense of humor."

"Wait a bit," exclaimed Rodgers. "Why not unlock the case?"

"If you wish—" Kitty inserted the key in the [Pg 114]lock and pulled down the glass door of the box, and she and her companions stared silently at the monster. Suddenly, Rodgers leaned forward and picked up the plaster cast. An exclamation broke from Craige.

"Papers at last!" he shouted. "Look, Kitty—Rodgers—" and as Rodgers removed the cast entirely out of the glass case, they saw that a part of the flooring of the box, which was built to resemble a sandy desert, came with the lizard, leaving a cavity, or false bottom, in which lay some documents. Gathering them up, Craige walked over to the nearest lamp and drawing up a chair sat down.

"With your permission, Kitty," he said. "These papers are not sealed—shall I open them?"

"Certainly."

Craige pulled out a short half sheet of foolscap from the first envelope and read its contents aloud:

Know all present that I, Susan Baird, spinster, of Washington, D. C., being of sound mind, do give and devise to my niece, Katrina Baird, all I may die possessed of, real or personal property. This is a special bequest in view of her efforts to support me.

A list of my property and a key to my safe deposit boxes in the bank, certificates of ownership, etc., are placed here with this, my last will and testament.

[Pg 115]

Signed in the presence of:
Josiah Wilkins, Martha Hammond, and James Duncan, June 20, 1918.

Susan Baird.

Kitty and Rodgers stared at each other as Craige, laying aside the will, rapidly opened the three other documents and examined them. Kitty drew a long, long breath.

"So I get the old house after all," she said softly.

"You get far more than that, Kitty," Craige laid down the documents. "From these statements and certificates I find that your aunt owned many valuable stocks and bonds." He looked at the surprised girl for a moment, then added: "She has left you a fortune."

[Pg 116]

CHAPTER IX
MRS. PARSONS ASKS QUESTIONS
Washington society, or such portions of it as had known Miss Susan Baird in her lifetime, was agog over the latest development in the Baird tragedy; while Washingtonians personally unacquainted with the spinster were equally interested from motives of curiosity in the filing of her will. And all Washington, figuratively speaking, rubbed its eyes and read the newspapers assiduously, without, however, gaining much satisfaction. News from Police Headquarters was scant, and reporters resorted to theories in place of facts in trying to solve the murder of the "Miser of Rose Hill." Miss Susan Baird, in death, had emerged from the obscurity which had shrouded her in life.

Inspector Mitchell leaned forward in his chair, rested his elbows on the highly polished mahogany table-top and contemplated Mrs. Parsons with speculative interest. Three quarters of an hour before he had received a telephone message requesting him [Pg 117]to call upon her on, as her servant had stated, urgent business. He had spent ten minutes in conversation with Mrs. Parsons and had not received the faintest inkling as to why she wished to see him.

"May I ask, Madam," he began with direct bluntness, "what it is that you wish to see me about?"

Mrs. Parsons looked across the "den" to make sure that the door was closed. Satisfied on that point, she turned her attention to the inspector.

"I am anxious to have your bureau undertake a certain investigation for me," she said. "I will gladly meet all expenses, no matter how large they may be."

"Just a moment," broke in Mitchell. "Do you mean a private investigation?"

"Yes, I suppose so," somewhat doubtfully. "You might term it that. I want certain information about a—a person’s past career—"

She stopped as Mitchell shook his head.

"We are public officials, Madam, employed by the District Government," he explained. "What you require is a private detective."

"But are they not untrustworthy?" she questioned. "I was told they very often sold you out to the person you wished watched."

"There are crooks in all trades, Madam," replied Mitchell. "There are also honest men. You are not obliged to pick a crooked detective to work for you."

[Pg 118]

"That is just it— Can you recommend a trustworthy person to—to—"

"To what, Madam?" as she came to a stammering halt.

"To learn certain facts in a person’s life." She plucked nervously at her handkerchief as she waited for his answer.

"You will have to be more explicit, Madam," he said gravely. "Whose past life do you wish investigated and why?"

Mrs. Parsons paused in indecision; then with an air of perfect candor addressed the impatient inspector.

"Of course you will respect my confidence," she began. Mitchell nodded. "There is a certain man in Washington who has gained a welcome in the most exclusive homes," she paused. "I believe him to be an adventurer."

"Come, Mrs. Parsons, that is not being very explicit," remonstrated Mitchell. "To whom are you alluding?"

"A man calling himself Edward Rodgers."

Mitchell sat back and regarded her in unconcealed surprise.

"Edward Rodgers," he echoed. "You surely do not mean Edward Rodgers, the handwriting expert?"

"I do." His profound astonishment was a sap to [Pg 119]her vanity, and she could not restrain a smile. It vanished suddenly as a thought recurred to her. "You have promised, Inspector, not to repeat what I tell you. I depend upon you to keep your word."

"Of course." Mitchell reddened. "I don’t break confidences, Madam. But you have said too much not to say more. What are your reasons for claiming that Edward Rodgers is an adventurer?"

Mrs. Parsons did not reply at once and Mitchell studied her with covert interest. She was dressed in exquisite taste and the delicate rose-tint of her complexion had been applied with such consummate skill that even the uncompromising glare of a March morning betrayed no signs of make-up to the sharp eyes of her visitor. Mitchell had always been more or less susceptible to women’s wiles, and his stiff official manner had thawed perceptibly when she had welcomed him with a cordiality very gratifying to his amour propre.

"Some years ago," Mrs. Parsons spoke in so low a tone that Mitchell was obliged to lean forward to catch what she said. "My husband, then a practicing attorney in San Francisco, had a client, Jacob Brown, a man of supposed wealth and standing in the community. Gradually, I do not know why, certain business transactions in which Brown was involved became questionable, but it was not until the Holt will case—"

[Pg 120]

"The Holt will case!" Inspector Mitchell drew back sharply. "Hah! Jake Brown—‘Gentleman Jake?’"

"Yes, just so." She looked at him admiringly. "You have an excellent memory, Inspector."

"Where crime is concerned," he admitted, with a touch of pride. "Let me see, Gentleman Jake was one of the beneficiaries in Colonel Holt’s will at a time when his financial affairs were in bad shape—"

"In fact, Gentleman Jake was a ruined man—" she supplemented softly.

"Exactly." Mitchell warmed to his subject. "And according to the will, Colonel Holt left him a hundred thousand dollars. Then along came a nephew who dug up another will and claimed that the one leaving the legacy to Gentleman Jake was a clever forgery."

"And the nephew won his case through the expert testimony of Edward Rodgers, handwriting expert," added Mrs. Parsons. "Gentleman Jake was sent to the penitentiary and—"

"Died before his term was up," Mitchell completed the sentence for her.

"But before he died he sent for my husband," Mrs. Parsons paused, then spoke more rapidly. "Jake Brown trusted my husband: he had stood by him and aided in his defense. On his death-bed Jake confessed—"

[Pg 121]

"That his Holt will was a forgery," interrupted Mitchell, pleased that he could again piece out her story and thereby prove his recollection of the case.

"That was his public confession," Mrs. Parsons lowered her voice. "What he told my husband under pledge of secrecy was that the second will was also a forgery."

"Second will?" sharply. "You mean the will produced by the nephew?"

"Exactly so."

"Well, good gracious!" Mitchell rubbed his head, perplexed in mind. "Why wasn’t it proven a forgery then?"

"Because its legality was never questioned. You will recall that Colonel Holt’s nephew produced letters and documents to prove his claim, and—" with a quiet smile—"every one’s attention was centered on Jake Brown and the will he fostered. Jake knew his will was a forgery and his entire effort was to evade the law. It was not until he was serving his sentence that Jake’s suspicions were aroused, and it was one of his fellow convicts who gave him the tip."

"And what was the tip?" asked Mitchell, as she paused.

"That Edward Rodgers turned his expert knowledge of handwriting and his skillful penmanship to good account—" calmly.

[Pg 122]

"You mean—"

"Jake told my husband that Edward Rodgers examined the spurious will when it was first offered for probate and discovered that it was a forgery. Keeping his knowledge to himself, Mr. Rodgers communicated with Colonel Holt’s nephew and, for a consideration, drew up the will leaving all Colonel Holt’s fortune to the nephew—"

"Oh, come," Mitchell’s smile was skeptical. "The nephew, as next of kin, would have inherited the property when the first will was proven a forgery; for in that event Colonel Holt died intestate."

"But there was another relative who should have shared Colonel Holt’s fortune in case the Colonel died without leaving a will," she explained.

"Oh!"

"Thus, to inherit his uncle’s wealth the nephew had to produce a will in his favor," she went on. "It was clever to present a second spurious will under the protection, you might say, of a detected forged will around which interest centered. As far as I know, the second will was so cleverly drawn that it never aroused suspicion."

"And thus the nephew inherited his uncle’s money." Mitchell stroked his chin thoughtfully. "What was Gentleman Jake’s object in telling this—" he hesitated, torn between a sense of politeness and unbelief, "this story to your husband?"

[Pg 123]

"Jake said that he confided in him hoping that Mr. Parsons could catch Edward Rodgers tripping some day and send him to the ‘pen,’" she replied.

"Did your husband place any faith in Jake’s yarn?" he asked. "A cornered crook, like a cornered cat, will fight—and lie."

"On his death-bed?" She shook her head. "I think not. What had Jake to gain then?"

"Well, did your husband take any steps in exposing the second will?" asked Mitchell.

"My husband," her expression altered to one of deep sadness, "was killed in an automobile accident shortly after."

"Oh," Mitchell coughed slightly to cover his embarrassment. "Oh."

"Amos often discussed his cases with me," she added. "And Gentleman Jake’s statements had aroused him to an unusual degree. He was thunderstruck at the effrontery of the crime and at its cleverness."

"It was a clever scheme," acknowledged Mitchell, "and probably succeeded through its very boldness. But, pardon me, Madam, you have brought forward no proof to substantiate your story."

"I am coming to that." Mrs. Parsons rose and walking over to a closet, beckoned to the inspector. Opening the door, she knelt down before a small [Pg 124]safe used to hold her table silver. From one of its compartments she took out a worn envelope.

"I forgot to tell you," she stated, shutting the door of the safe, "that the fellow convict who gave the tip to Gentleman Jake was up for burglary. Some time previous to his arrest he had entered Edward Rodgers’ apartment in San Francisco and, among other things, stolen these papers. He sent them to my husband when released from the ‘pen.’ See for yourself," and she handed the envelope to Mitchell.

Returning to his old seat, Inspector Mitchell shook the contents of the envelope on the table, then laying it down he picked up a yellowish paper, which bore the signature: "John Holt" written over and over. The reverse was a letter in a stiff, Spencerian handwriting:

Dear Rodgers:

Call at my office to-morrow. I plan to destroy my last will, and would like you to locate my nephew, Leigh Wallace, for me.

Yours,

John Holt.

Without comment Mitchell laid aside the letter and picked up another paper. It bore the same signature, traced in varying forms of completeness, and [Pg 125]in one corner the name, "Leigh Wallace," was repeated again and again. The third and last paper was in the stiff handwriting of the letter signed by John Holt, and read:

I, John Holt, being in good health and of sound mind, do hereby revoke all other instruments and do declare this to be my last will and testament. I give and bequeath to my nephew, Leigh Wallace—

The remainder of the page was blank except for a large smudge of ink.

Inspector Mitchell laid the three sheets of paper side by side and examined them with care.

"Leigh Wallace," he said smilingly. "Is he any relation to the Major Leigh Wallace over whom Miss Baird and her niece, Miss Kitty, are said by Oscar to have quarreled on Sunday shortly before Miss Baird’s murder?"

"He is the same man." Mrs. Parsons pushed aside the vase of flowers standing on the table so that she could obtain an unobstructed view of Mitchell and the papers lying in front of him. "Strange, is it not, that Major Leigh Wallace and Edward Rodgers should both be in Washington and both interested in the Baird murder?"

"Why strange?" Inspector Mitchell was not to [Pg 126]be drawn. "All Washington is interested in Miss Susan Baird’s death."

"But not with such a personal interest." Mrs. Parsons’ voice was honey sweet. "Edward Rodgers has promised to aid in tracing her murderer. Also, Colonel Holt was Kitty Baird’s uncle."

"What—then she is the other relative you alluded to—?"

"Yes." She paused. "Colonel Holt died intestate and his property should have been divided equally between his nearest of kin, Kitty Baird, and her cousin, Leigh Wallace."

"But the forged will gave the entire fortune to Wallace," Mitchell spoke slowly.

"Which he has squandered," she added. "Leigh Wallace is cursed with an inherited vice—a craze for gambling."

Inspector Mitchell raised his head and regarded Mrs. Parsons. The silence lasted fully a minute, then picking up the three papers he replaced them in the worn envelope and pocketed it.

"You have given me valuable information," he said, rising. "It will not be necessary to call in a private detective. Good morning, Mrs. Parsons."

[Pg 127]

CHAPTER X
RUMORS
The clerks in the outer office of "Craige and Lewis, Attorneys" looked up as the hall door opened with an unmistakable wrench and Ben Potter precipitated himself into the room. He brought up with some abruptness before the chief clerk’s desk.

"Take my card at once to Mr. Craige," he directed. "Tell him I’m in the devil’s hurry—late for an appointment now. Thank you," as an office boy hurried forward with a chair. "I prefer to stand."

The chief clerk, with one look at Potter’s determined expression, decided it was best to swallow his dignity and execute Potter’s peremptory request. He returned with unusual speed from the inner office.

"Mr. Craige will see you at once, Sir," he announced, holding the door open for Potter and [Pg 128]swinging it to behind him with a sharp bang, as a slight vent to his ruffled feelings.

Potter had crossed the room before he realized that he and Craige, who had risen at his entrance, were not alone. His angry frown gave way to a smile when the third man turned more fully toward him and he recognized Edward Rodgers.

"Hello, Ted, I’m glad you are here," he exclaimed as Craige pulled another chair for his guest before resuming his seat. Potter sat down heavily and tossed his hat and cane on the desk. "Say, Craige, what the deuce does this mean?" and unfolding a newspaper, which he had held tightly clenched in his left hand, he pointed to a column of news, under the heading:

Miss Susan Baird Wills Fortune to Niece

"It means what it says," explained Craige. "Miss Susan Baird left Kitty an heiress."

Potter’s prominent pale blue eyes were opened to their widest extent. "C-c-cousin S-s-susan!" he stuttered. "That forlorn old pauper left a fortune! Why, Craige, I fully expected to be called on to pay her funeral expenses. You mean to tell me, in all earnestness, that Cousin Susan had any money—"

"She did not have ‘any money,’ she had a large [Pg 129]fortune," declared Craige, laughing outright at Potter’s ludicrous expression of bewilderment.

"Then I am to understand that this newspaper is correct in its statements?" Potter asked.

"You are—" Craige leaned over and looked at the date on the newspaper. "You are a bit behind-hand, Ben. That paper of yours is a day old."

"Well, I’ve only just seen it," Potter’s tone had grown querulous. "I had to run on to New York night before last—the night of the inquest, to be exact, and Nina and I only got in this morning, having taken the midnight train. This paper was the first I opened when we reached home, and its account of Cousin Susan’s will astounded me."

"It took our breath away also," admitted Craige. "Rodgers was with us when we found the will; in fact it was through his agency that it was found at all."

Potter swung around so hastily in his endeavor to face Rodgers that he knocked his cane off the desk.

"How’d you know there was a will?" he demanded. "Oh, never mind about the cane; let it stay on the floor."

"Rodgers had no knowledge of the will’s existence any more than the rest of us," declared Craige before Rodgers, who had stooped to pick up Potter’s cane, had a chance to answer the latter’s question. "He happened to open a trap-door to a hiding place [Pg 130]in which lay directions, written by Susan Baird, telling us where to find her papers."

Potter stared at his companions in unbounded astonishment. It was some moments before he collected his wits sufficiently to ask a question.

"Where," he began, "and how, in the name of God, did Cousin Susan acquire her wealth?"

Craige shook a bewildered head. "I cannot answer that question," he admitted. "It is one that has puzzled me hourly since the finding of her will and the discovery of her investments."

"They are all genuine?"

"Absolutely; gilt edged, most of them." Again Craige shook his head. "Miss Susan showed rare judgment in her investments, rare even in an experienced man of business, and in a woman who posed as a pauper—good Lord!" He raised his hands and dropped them with an expressive gesture. "In all my legal experience the whole affair, her death, her wealth—is the most remarkable."

"Considering them together, does not her wealth suggest a motive for her death?" asked Rodgers, breaking his long silence.

"But who knew that she was wealthy?" demanded Potter. "Was ever a secret so well kept?" He stopped abruptly as a thought occurred to him and his expression altered. "How about Kitty? Was [Pg 131]she in the dark, too, or was she aware that her aunt owned a large fortune?"

"She was entirely ignorant of it." Rodgers spoke with marked emphasis, and Potter favored him with a heavy scowl. "Kitty Baird had no idea that her aunt was anything but the pauper she pretended to be. On that I’ll stake my reputation."

Potter’s scowl gave away to an expression of doubt.

"It’s odd, in fact, it’s damned odd!" he exploded. "Kitty lived with her aunt, lived alone with her. How could she help but know of her aunt’s financial affairs?"

"Suppose you question Kitty," suggested Craige, with a swift glance at Rodger’s lowering countenance. "The girl, in my opinion, knew absolutely nothing about her aunt’s hoarded wealth—for it was hoarded, hoarded even from her, her only living relative."

"Hold on there, I’m a relative, also," objected Potter. "She and my father were second cousins. By the way," with a complete change of tone, "was there any mention of me in the will?"

"There was not." At Craige’s curt reply Potter frowned again.

"So she left me out of it, did she?" He shrugged his shoulders with well-simulated indifference. "Did Cousin Susan name an executor and did she leave [Pg 132]her fortune to Kitty in trust, or give it to her outright?"

"She left it to Kitty without reservations," replied Craige. "Kitty applied to the Court to appoint me co-executor with herself, and the court has granted her request and permitted us to-day to take out letters of administration."

"Is that so." Potter reached for his hat and buttoned up his overcoat which he had kept on during the interview. "Do I understand, Ted, that you are seriously trying to solve the mystery of Cousin Susan’s murder?"

"I am."

Potter rose. His usual genial manner was absent and also his ready smile.

"Has it occurred to you, Ted," he said, and his voice was rasping; "that the person to benefit by Cousin Susan’s death is the one person known to have quarreled with her during the afternoon of the day in which she was murdered?"

"What d’ye mean?" Rodgers was on his feet, advancing toward the naturalist.

"I mean," Potter spoke with deliberation, his eyes not dropping before Rodgers’ furious gaze. "I mean that Kitty first quarreled with her aunt and now most opportunely inherits her fortune—so that she can marry Leigh Wallace, who can’t afford to marry a poor girl."

[Pg 133]

Rodgers’ powerful grip on Potter’s throat was loosened by Craige.

"Stop this quarreling!" commanded the lawyer. "Stop it, I say," and he shook Rodgers vehemently as he backed him away from Potter. "Go, Ben; I’ll join you later."

Craige did not release his hold on Rodgers until Potter, still gasping from his encounter with the former, reeled out of the office.

"What has come over you, Rodgers?" he asked, letting go his hold so suddenly that Rodgers staggered backward. "Why did you fly at Potter in that manner?"

"The dirty blackguard!" Rodgers actually stammered in his rage. "Didn’t you hear him? Why, he had the audacity to infer that because old Oscar overheard a wordy row between Kitty and her aunt, that Kitty killed the old lady and so inherited her fortune—to marry—" he choked. "Why, damn it! There are a dozen men who would marry Kitty if she hadn’t a cent in the world—I’m—" his face paled, "I’m one of them."

Craige looked at him with admiring approval. "I like your loyalty," he exclaimed. "As for Potter—" he struck his desk with his clenched fist. "Potter has grown insufferable. Matrimony doesn’t appear to agree with him." He stepped back to his desk and picked up his brief case. When he turned again [Pg 134]to Rodgers, who stood waiting by the door, the gravity of his manner struck the younger man. "There is no use blinding ourselves to the situation, Rodgers," he said. "It is up to us to solve the mystery of Susan Baird’s death. If we don’t," he paused, "Kitty may find herself in a most unpleasant predicament."

"The mystery is going to be solved—and quickly," Rodgers checked his hasty speech. "Are you on your way to the Court House, Mr. Craige?"

"Yes." Craige followed Rodgers through the outer office, pausing only long enough to be assisted into his overcoat by an attentive office boy, and joined him at the elevator. "Don’t let Potter worry you, Rodgers; give him time to cool off. I imagine the news that Susan Baird was a wealthy woman, and that she never left him a red cent is responsible for his irritability. You know Ben is rather inclined to love money."

"Hm, yes. I can well believe that he is blood-kin in that respect to Miss Susan Baird," and Rodgers, his temper somewhat restored, waved a friendly hand to Craige as they left the elevator and went their several ways.

Once in the street Rodgers moved with dragging footsteps toward his car, his thought elsewhere. Suddenly he became conscious that, as deliberately as he walked, some one just ahead of him was mov[Pg 135]ing even more slowly. Stepping to one side, he moved forward at a more rapid gait and was about to pass the limping figure when a hand touched his arm and looking down he found old Oscar by his side.

"I’se sorry, Sah, I couldn’t get out o’ your way," he said apologetically. "This hyar rheumatics am mighty bad dis mawnin’, Mister Rodgers."

"That is too bad, Oscar." Rodgers, observing the old man’s weary air, spoke with impulsive sympathy. "You are pretty far from home."

"Yessir. I started to do an errand fo’ Mandy, and then I stopped to see a parade, an’ I jes’ naturally has ter follow a band, an’ hyar I be!" The old darky heaved a heavy sigh. "I ’spects a street cyar’ll be along bimeby an’ carry me over to Georgetown."

"Get in my car and I will take you to ‘Rose Hill.’" At Rodgers’ suggestion a pleased smile lighted Oscar’s face and he showed his big white teeth to their fullest extent.

"’Deed, Sah, that’s mighty nice ob you’," he exclaimed, moving with greater speed to the curb. "I kin get in, thank yo’ kindly."

It took Oscar a few minutes to get comfortably settled in the roadster, and it was with a sigh of genuine satisfaction that he leaned back and watched Rodgers start his engine. His smile, which had never quite departed since Rogers first suggested [Pg 136]taking him home, broadened expansively as they slipped through traffic and swung into a quieter side street.

"Yo’ certainly kin drive, Mister Rodgers," he said, breaking the long silence. "I guess yo’ can beat Major Wallace handlin’ a cyar."

"Thanks for the compliment, Oscar," Rodgers laughed. "Major Wallace has a reputation as a speedster."

"Yessir," but Oscar looked a trifle bewildered, long words were not his strong point. "Major Wallace done taught Miss Kitty ter drive."

"Oh, has he?"

"Yessir." Oscar was oblivious of Rodgers’ shortness of tone. "Dat’s one o’ the things Ole Miss cut up ructions ’bout. She did hate dat Major, an’ she jes’ laid Miss Kitty out fo’ goin’ wid him."

"Oh, come, Oscar, Miss Susan did not hate Major Wallace," objected Rodgers.

"She did, Sah, she did." Oscar’s smile had disappeared and he spoke quickly. "An’ she suttenly did ’spress her mind to Miss Kitty on Sunday."

Rodgers turned and scanned Oscar closely. The old darky looked the picture of honest respectability. His worn clothes were neatly brushed and patched. He sat with his battered hat cocked a trifle over one eye and his black face shone with the enjoyment of the unexpected treat of a ride in a fast roadster with [Pg 137]"one of the quality" as he termed Ted Rodgers in his own mind.

"Why did you tell Coroner Penfield that Miss Susan and her niece quarreled on Sunday?" Rodgers asked. The old man blinked at the unexpected question.

"’Cause he axed me, an’ they did quarrel." Oscar’s voice betrayed a strain of obstinacy. "’Tain’t no harm tellin’ de truf, is there, Mister Rodgers?"

"No, certainly not." Rodgers slowed down at a street crossing and in shifting gears failed to catch the sudden crafty look Oscar shot at him. It vanished in a second. "How is Miss Kitty this morning?"

"Tol’able well, thank yo’," Oscar replied. "Dr. McLean was over las’ night an’ he tole Mandy that he wanted Miss Kitty to leave town fo’ a month; seemed to think she needed change. But Miss Kitty, she said ‘no.’"

"Then she is not going away." Rodgers’ satisfaction was unconcealed. "Is she at home, Oscar?" as he slowed up the car before the entrance to "Rose Hill."

Oscar shook his head. "No, Sah, she done gone fo’ de day," he said, opening the door and clambering with some difficulty to the pavement. "Miss [Pg 138]Kitty said somethin’ ’bout seein’ Mrs. Parsons. She done call her up dis mawnin’."

"I thought Miss Kitty had resigned from her secretary work." Rodgers let his engine run and leaned over to speak to Oscar. "Has Mrs. Parsons been here?"

"No, Sah, not since Miss Susan’s death." Oscar hesitated, looked up and down the empty street, then back over his shoulder. No one was within earshot. The old man took his hand from the car door and rested his weight on his cane. "I kinda ’spects they had a fight."

"They—?" Rodgers eyed him in deep surprise. "Miss Kitty and Mrs. Parsons?"

"No, Sah. Mrs. Parsons an’ ole Miss Susan. Good mawnin’, Sah," and Oscar stamped up the steps leading to "Rose Hill," deaf to Rodgers’ repeated calls to return.

[Pg 139]

CHAPTER XI
I. O. U.
Ted Rodgers shut off his engine, sprang from the car and in ten strides had gained the old negro’s side.

"Stop a moment!" And at the stern command in his voice Oscar halted. "I am convinced that you know more of Miss Susan Baird’s death than you have admitted, Oscar, and—" his voice deepened, "you are going to tell me the truth."

Oscar cast a frightened glance upward. Rodgers’ determined expression was not one to encourage evasion.

"Suttenly, Sah, suttenly. Wha-what truf do yo’ wish, Sah?" he stammered, politeness uppermost in spite of his confusion of mind.

Rodgers’ gaze grew in intensity as he studied the old man. The latter’s eyes had shifted from his interrogator to the mansion and his black face had become mottled grey in color. As the silence lengthened, Oscar’s apprehension increased and his [Pg 140]fingers fumbled nervously with his cane. For the life of him he could think of nothing to say. The sound of Rodgers’ voice came as so vast a relief that at first he failed to take in what he was saying.

"You testified at the inquest, Oscar," Rodgers stated slowly, "that after serving a midday dinner on Sunday you left ‘Rose Hill.’ But you did not tell Coroner Penfield that you returned here on Sunday night—"

"I didn’t, Sah—fo’ Gawd, I didn’t!" Oscar raised a trembling hand. "I only jes’ passed along the street down yonder—"

"And what did you see?" demanded Rodgers, his eyes sparkling. His chance shot in the dark had told.

Oscar’s answer was slow in coming. Moving closer to Rodgers, he laid one shaking hand, knotted from rheumatism, on his shoulder. The gesture, half involuntary, held something pathetic in its mute appeal.

"Massa," he began, and his voice grew wistful. "Whose side is yo’ on? Is yo’ fo’ de police o’ fo’ Miss Kitty?"

Rodgers whitened as he met the old man’s direct gaze. At last there was no shifting in Oscar’s eyes. Man to man they faced each other—master and servant—each dominated with one desire: to serve one woman.

[Pg 141]

"I would give my life for Miss Kitty," Rodgers’ deep voice carried conviction.

"An’ yo’ won’t let no harm come to her?"

"No." The reply rang out clearly. Oscar’s harassed expression altered.

"Gawd bless yo’, Sah!" He touched Rogers’ hand reverently. "Ole Mandy an’ me, we’s needed help de worst way. Hadn’t nowhar to turn; now—" he drew a long breath of relief. "Now yo’ kin find Miss Kitty’s red coat—"

"Miss Kitty’s red coat?" echoed Rodgers, staring in astonishment at Oscar. "What in the world—"

"Yessir." Oscar blinked rapidly. "Yo’ ’member dat dar coat Miss Kitty was so fond o’ wearin’?—I heard yo’ an’ she argyfying ’bout it bein’ pink ’stead o’ red."

"I know the one you mean," replied Rodgers impatiently. "Well, what about it?"

"It’s done gone!" Oscar raised his hand and dropped it in a gesture indicative of despair. "An’, Mister Rodgers, we’s got ter find dat ar coat fo’ de police."

Rodgers stared at him for a full moment. There was no doubting Oscar’s sincerity. His face was beaded in perspiration and his eyes, twice their normal size, were alight with earnest appeal.

"Please, Sah, don’t ax me no mo’ questions," he [Pg 142]pleaded. "Jes’ find dat coat an’ we’ll know who killed ole Miss."

"Upon my word!" Rodgers shook a bewildered head. "What are you driving at, Oscar?"

"Find dat coat, Sah, an’ then yo’ll know all. ’Deed, Massa, I ain’t lyin’." Oscar’s voice shook with feeling. "Please, Sah, do as I ax. It’s fo’ Miss Kitty."

"Very well." Rodgers came to a sudden decision. "I’ll do my best to aid Miss Kitty, even if I do it blindfolded. But, see here, Oscar, wouldn’t it be simpler to ask Miss Kitty for her coat?"

"She mustn’t know nawthin’!" Oscar spoke in genuine alarm. "She—she ain’t had it fo’ mos’ some time—" His lips trembled a bit and he touched them with the tips of his fingers. "The coat ain’t with none o’ her clothes, ’cause I’se searched the house, Massa, an’ Miss Kitty’ll be everlastin’ grateful to yo’. But—" his voice dropped to a husky whisper—"yo’ git it befo’ de police does."

Engrossed in their conversation, Rodgers had failed to note that Oscar had gradually edged his way to the top step. With an agility which took Rodgers completely by surprise the old negro whisked down the walk which skirted the mansion and disappeared from sight.

With an oath Rodgers pursued him down the walk, only to reach the side door and have it [Pg 143]slammed in his face. Repeated knocking brought no response, and after circling the mansion in the hope of finding an entrance, if not a glimpse of Oscar, he finally returned to his car and started for Washington much perturbed in mind.

On reaching Washington, Rodgers ran the car toward Pennsylvania Avenue, stopping en route to purchase a can of Mobiloil. It did not take him long to drive to a garage in an alley to the south of the Avenue. At his hail the owner of the small shop came out.

"How’dy, Mr. Rodgers," he exclaimed, touching his soiled cap. "How’s the car going?"

"All right, but I want the oil drained out, Sam," handing, as he spoke, the can of Mobiloil to the mechanic. "How is business?"

"Oh, so so." Sam glanced about the wide alley. "Pull up to this side, Sir; I can get at the car better here."

Leaving the car, after he had complied with Sam’s request, Rodgers stood watching him for a few minutes, but his thought would stray back to Kitty Baird and he lost interest in both the car and the mechanic. Lighting a cigarette, he strolled down the alley to where it opened into Pennsylvania Avenue. The sight of hurrying pedestrians and swift-moving vehicles proved only a brief diversion as his [Pg 144]mind again returned to Kitty and the unsolved problem of her aunt’s mysterious death.

Oscar’s conduct was a puzzle which he wanted time to think out. That the old man knew more of the circumstances of Miss Susan Baird’s death than he was willing to divulge was self-evident. Rodgers was thoroughly convinced that Oscar was devoted to Kitty. What then, did he mean to infer by saying that he, Rodgers, must find Kitty’s red coat before the police secured it? In what possible way was the coat connected with Miss Baird’s death?

The blare of a motor horn almost in his ear caused Rodgers to jump to one side as an army truck drove out of the valley and turned into Pennsylvania Avenue. Not having time to look where he was going, Rodgers collided with a dummy figure placed in front of a second-hand clothes store. As Rodgers picked up the figure he found that its wax face had come in contact with the pavement and was decidedly damaged. With an impatient sigh he entered the store and was met by the proprietor.

"I knocked over your dummy," he explained, drawing out his leather wallet. "It got a bit damaged. How much—?" and he opened a roll of Treasury bills.

"Wait; I’ll go see the dummy first," and the proprietor bustled out of the shop.

As Rodgers turned to accompany him, his eyes [Pg 145]fell upon a red coat lying on the counter. He had the faculty of carrying a color in his mind’s eye, also of noticing minute details. The coat looked like Kitty’s—with a single stride he was at the counter—the coat was Kitty’s. It was a stylishly cut garment, of a rough finish cloth, with large patch pockets and a scarflike collar with fringe on the ends. To make assurance doubly sure Rodgers examined the black and gold buttons of Japanese handiwork. He had admired them too often to be mistaken. How came Kitty’s coat in that store? A voice at his elbow caused him to wheel about.

"The face is kinda mussed up," announced the proprietor. "Five dollars will cover it."

"Five dollars!" fumed Rodgers, then paused. "Oh, all right—" handing him the money. "How much is this coat?"

"Twenty dollars." The proprietor had caught sight of Rodgers’ generous roll of greenbacks. "It’s a nice coat; good as new, ’cept for the torn lining and a few faded spots. It’s just what any lady would want. She could reline—"

"I’ll take it," cut in Rodgers and the proprietor accepted his money with a wry face. Why had he not asked more? It was not often that so biddable a purchaser wandered into his shop. "By the way," Rodgers paused in the doorway. "How long have you had this coat?"

[Pg 146]

"Two—no, three days." The proprietor paused to consider. "The woman came early in the morning and somehow the coat got misplaced in my stock. I was putting it in the window on display just as you arrived."

"Was the woman known to you?" asked Rogers. Both men were on the sidewalk by that time.

"Not she—never laid eyes on her before and wouldn’t know her again if I was to see her." The proprietor was in a happy mood; not often had he taken in twenty-five dollars so easily. "Well, I hope your lady likes the coat. So-long," and he nodded affably, as Rodgers turned into the alley.

There was still five minutes’ work to be done on the car and Rodgers spent them in hurrying Sam into completing the job without further waste of time, and it was with a feeling of satisfaction that he laid the coat on the seat and took his place behind the steering wheel. He had to slow up for traffic as he started out of the alley into Pennsylvania Avenue. A hail close at hand caused him to look around and he recognized the proprietor of the second-hand clothes store approaching.

"Hey! Just a minute," called the latter, and Rodgers pulled up at the curb and waited for him. "Say, mister, my wife fancies that coat, so if you don’t mind I’ll return you the twenty dollars," and he held out the money.

[Pg 147]

Rodgers eyed him in astonishment. "I prefer to keep the coat," he said. "Sorry I can’t oblige you."

"But, see here," the man protested. "I’ll give you two extra dollars. Come now, that’s fair; twenty-two dollars. Money don’t often turn over in your plans quite so fast, does it?" with a faint leer. "Here’re the extra dollars."

"Thanks, but I don’t want them," dryly.

"Oh!" The proprietor looked blank. "’Spose we make it twenty-five?"

"Nothing doing."

"How about thirty dollars?" persisted the man. "Oh, I’m no piker," observing Rodgers’ expression. "When I want a thing I am willing to pay for it."

"And just why do you want this coat so particularly?" asked Rodgers, his suspicion aroused.

"I told you my wife wants that coat."

"Well, she can’t have it." Rodgers released the clutch and the car shot down the Avenue, leaving the dealer in second-hand clothes standing with mouth agape, gesticulating wildly after him.

It was but a short distance to the Bachelor where he had an apartment, and Rodgers paid small regard to traffic regulations until he reached there. He wasted some valuable moments in finding parking space near the building and he was in no amiable frame of mind when he finally hurried through the swing door of the front entrance. The elevator [Pg 148]boy was nowhere visible and Rodgers collected his letters from his mail box; then, tucking the red coat under his arm, he went over to the staircase and mounted it two steps at a time until he reached the third floor. As he turned his latch-key and threw open the door of his apartment he heard his name called and whirled around. Ben Potter was walking toward him from the direction of the elevator shaft.

"Glad I caught you, Ted," he remarked, ignoring Rodgers’ curt manner. Not waiting for an invitation, he stepped into the apartment and walked through the short hall into the large room which served Rodgers as a combination living and dining room. "I came to apologize for my surly behavior in Craige’s office this morning, old man."

"Your apology is due to Miss Baird rather than to me," replied Rodgers stiffly.

"I spoke in haste—without thought," Potter admitted amiably. "Let’s drop the matter, Ted. Can you dine with us to-night? I’ll get Kitty to come also."

"I have an engagement to-night, thanks."

Potter’s florid complexion turned a warmer tint and he averted his gaze so that Rodgers might not detect the sudden rage which his eyes betrayed.

"Sorry; but you’ll come some other time, per[Pg 149]haps," he mumbled. "Nina’s greatly interested in hearing of all that you have done for Kitty."

"I—done for her?" Rodgers turned and eyed his companion sharply. Potter had perched himself on the end of the lounge with the evident intention of remaining, and was leisurely rolling a cigarette.

"Sure—you have accomplished a great deal for Kitty," Potter affirmed with emphasis. "You found the will which gave her a fortune. To put it poetically, the beggar maid is now an heiress and a prey to fortune hunters."

Rodgers’ eyes blazed. "Your remarks are offensive," he exclaimed.

Potter straightened up. "Are you trying to fasten a quarrel on me?" he demanded hotly.

"I intend to make you speak more respectfully of Miss Baird," retorted Rodgers, his anger at white heat. "If that means a fight—well, I’m ready," and he tossed the red coat on the nearest chair to have his hands free.

Potter’s big frame relaxed against the cushioned back of the lounge as he forced a laugh. "You are too damned quick to take offense," he protested. "Why, Kitty’s my cousin. I’d be the first to take her part."

"And yet you insinuate—"

[Pg 150]

"Nothing," with a patience meant to exasperate. "What are you doing with Kitty’s red coat?"

Rodgers met the unexpected question with unmoved countenance.

"You are mistaken," he said. "It is not Miss Baird’s coat."

"It isn’t?" Potter’s rising inflection expressed doubt. "Let me see it?" And he reached forward a grasping hand.

With a quick movement Rodgers pulled the coat beyond Potter’s reach. The next second he was staggering backward from a crashing blow delivered as Potter, who had gathered himself for a spring, swung forward upon his feet. Rage at the treacherous attack was a stimulant to Rodgers and he met Potter’s second onslaught with a swift right-hander. The scientist was no easy antagonist and for the moment he had the better of the rough and tumble fight; then as the younger man got his second wind he gave back and Rodgers pinned him against the wall.

"You yellow dog!" Rodgers half sobbed the words in his rage as he shifted his grip to the man’s throat.

The movement gave Potter his opportunity. Wrenching his right hand free he jerked a revolver from his coat pocket and brought the butt against Rodgers’ temple with stunning force. Rodgers [Pg 151]sagged backward, then regained his balance as Potter’s revolver again descended on his head. With a low moan he sank back, overturning a chair in his fall.

As Potter bent over the half-conscious man a resounding knock at the apartment door caused him to start upright. One hasty glance about the room showed him that the window overlooking the fire-escape was open. Potter’s eyes sought the red coat. It lay on the floor, half hidden under Rodgers. Stooping over, he seized one of the sleeves and tugged at it.

The action aroused Rodgers from his stupor and with such strength as remained he grasped the sleeve also. It was an unequal tug-of-war. Potter’s cry of triumph was drowned by repeated knocking on the door and the sound of raised voices demanding admittance. Not daring to remain longer, he released his hold on the coat sleeve and bolted through the window and down the fire-escape as an agile elevator boy climbed through the pantry window from an adjoining balcony and popped into the living room. He stopped aghast at sight of Rodgers, torn and bleeding, and the chaotic condition of the overturned furniture.

"My Lawd! What’s been a-happenin’?" he gasped. "We heered ructions an’ I got de police."

"Police!" The last word penetrated Rodgers’ [Pg 152]reeling senses, and his eyes sought the red coat sleeve which he still grasped.

"Yes; they’re at the do’ now," as renewed pounding echoed through the place.

"Go and let them in," commanded Rodgers; then, as the boy dashed down the hall, he staggered to his feet over to the small dumb-waiter shaft which was used to carry garbage cans, milk bottles and packages to the apartment. But one idea was uppermost—the police must not get Kitty’s red coat. He had just time to open the door and thrust the red coat down the chute and close the door again before two policemen appeared in the room. Stars were dancing before Rodgers’ eyes and he brushed his hand across his forehead. He must think—think— Should he have Potter arrested? No, he would settle the score between them without police aid. His hands clenched at the thought and he straightened up in spite of the increasing sense of faintness which caused his knees to sag under him.

"What’s happened?" demanded the foremost policeman. "Who attacked you?"

"A burglar, evidently," replied Rodgers, sinking down in the nearest chair. "I walked in on him. He went that way—" indicating the fire-escape.

"Chase down and see if you can catch him, Mike," ordered the first speaker. "I’ll search the apartment for any clues. Here—" observing Rodg[Pg 153]ers’ half-fainting condition—"Good Lord, he’s keeled over!"

An hour later Rodgers, his cuts treated by Dr. McLean, and finally left alone by a too-solicitous policeman, went down into the basement of the apartment house. He had no difficulty in locating the opening to the dumb-waiter shaft. Looking inside, he found it empty.

"What is it, Mr. Rodgers?" inquired the janitor’s wife, a young colored girl who acted as laundress for the tenants.

"I’m looking for a red coat which I accidentally dropped down the chute, Cora," Rodgers explained.

"Mercy, Sir, I wish I’d known that was yours," she exclaimed. "It was on top of a pile of trash and was so raggety that I just put the whole business in the furnace."

Rodgers stared at her aghast, then, collecting his wits, he dashed by her and into the furnace room. The light from a hot fire half blinded him as he flung open the furnace door. Lying on the flagging close to the opening was a portion of the red coat—the rest was ashes. Rodgers jerked out the piece of red cloth, and flinging it on the cement floor, stamped out the smoldering flames. Paying no attention to Cora’s lamentations, he hurried upstairs, the precious piece in his hand.

Once more in his apartment and with the door [Pg 154]safely locked, he dropped down on the lounge and regarded all that remained of the coat, as his thoughts returned to Oscar and his fervid request that he "find Miss Kitty’s red coat." In what way was the red coat involved in the mystery of Miss Baird’s death? Why had the dealer in second-hand clothes wished so ardently to buy it back? How had it gotten into his hands in the first place? Above all, why did Ben Potter wish to gain possession of it?

Rodgers’ head swam with the effort to find an answer to the enigma. Sinking back against the cushions, he ran his hand over the piece of red cloth. It was the front breadth of the coat and its patch pocket that had remained intact.

As Rodgers’ fingers strayed inside the pocket his thoughts turned to Kitty Baird—beautiful Kitty Baird—his best beloved. His restless fingers closed over a small wad of paper pressed deep in the coat pocket. A second later he had smoothed out the paper and, carrying it to the light, strove to read the writing upon it. A whistle escaped him.

"An ‘I.O.U.,’" he exclaimed. "Devil take it, the signature’s undecipherable!"

[Pg 155]

CHAPTER XII
A WORD OF WARNING
Kitty Baird regarded the butler with astonishment.

"Mrs. Parsons is not at home," she repeated. "Why, Oscar brought me a telephone message from her asking me to be here at noon and to lunch with her." She consulted her watch. "Are you quite certain that she is not in, James?"

"Quite, Miss Kitty." The butler’s solemnity of manner matched his severe black clothes, which fitted his somewhat spare form with the neatness of a glove. "Mrs. Parsons had forgotten a meeting of the Neighborhood House Committee, and she left word that she was very sorry to put you out. She said that she had no idea what time she would be back, and that you were not to wait for her."

"Oh!" The exclamation slipped from Kitty with some vigor. "Oh, very well, James," with a quick change of tone. "Please tell Mrs. Parsons that I called. Good morning."

"Good morning, Miss Kitty." And James re[Pg 156]treated inside the vestibule and closed the front door. As he went through the hallway, intent on reaching the servants’ dining room by the shortest possible route, he failed to see Mrs. Parsons standing in the folds of the portières before the entrance to the small reception room, which, with the large dining room, was on the ground floor of her English basement house.

From her vantage point, Mrs. Parsons had overheard Kitty’s conversation with her butler. Slipping her front door key, with which she had gained entrance some moments before, unknown to James, into her gold mesh bag, she hurried to the small window which overlooked the street. Taking care not to be seen by passers-by, Mrs. Parsons watched Kitty standing by the curb, apparently in doubt as to whether to cross the street or not.

Kitty, in fact, was debating where she should lunch. Time hung heavy on her hands, and the thought of the great empty house in Georgetown sent a shiver down her spine. Neither Mandy nor Oscar were enlivening company at the best of times, and since her aunt’s death—Kitty shivered again. Oscar’s morbid relish of everything pertaining to the tragedy, his incessant harping on the subject, had worked upon Kitty’s nerves, and except for her appreciation of his many years of devoted ser[Pg 157]vice, she would have paid him several months’ wages in advance and let him go.

Mandy, since the day of the discovery of Miss Susan Baird’s dead body, had moved over to "Rose Hill," bag and baggage, and Kitty had been grateful for her watchful care. Unlike her husband, Mandy was not given to talking and she had seen to it that Kitty had every attention, and in her way had done much to shelter her from inquisitive callers. Mandy looked upon the telephone as the invention of the Evil One, and nothing would induce her to answer it, so that to Oscar had fallen the task of keeping reporters away. His loquaciousness had, however, been checked by a stringent command from Mr. Craige to refer all newspaper men to him or to the police. The order had been emphasized with a hint that, if not carried out, Oscar would be parted from what promised to be a lucrative pension. Oscar had obeyed the order with much grumbling, but his complaints were carefully confided to his wife alone and fell on unsympathetic ears.

"Go ’long, nigger; don’t bother yo’ betters," she had responded. "Ef yo’ ain’t careful, Miss Kitty’ll bounce us both. An’ then whar’ll we be?"

Kitty looked at her watch again. She had ample time to walk down to the Allies’ Inn for luncheon and she would feel better for the exercise. Already [Pg 158]the sunshine and fresh air had braced her up. Her decision made, she waved away a taxi-driver hovering near the curb with a watchful eye on her, and, turning, started down the street. She was conscious of a man passing her at a rapid walk, but with her head slightly bent and her thoughts elsewhere, she did not glance up. The man ran up the three steps leading to Mrs. Parsons’ front door, stopped, turned around and looked at her. The next second Kitty heard her name called by a familiar voice.

"What luck!" exclaimed Leigh Wallace, as she waited for him to approach. "Where are you going, Kitty?"

"To the Allies’ Inn for luncheon," she replied. "Mrs. Parsons is out, Leigh; I’ve just been there."

"Oh, ah!" Wallace twirled his swagger stick with such energy that it almost slipped from his grasp. "In that case, Kitty, lunch with me at the Shoreham? Don’t say you won’t," as she shook her head. "I must talk to you—by yourself. Don’t refuse, Kitty, don’t."

Kitty looked at him steadily. "We can talk as we walk along," she said quietly. "Come." And her decided tone left Wallace nothing to do but match his footstep to hers as she sauntered along.

From her sheltered nook in the window Mrs. Parsons saw Major Wallace’s rapid approach to her front door, observed his belated recognition of [Pg 159]Kitty, heard his hail, and watched their leisurely walk down the street. An odd smile crossed her lips as she dropped the window curtain into place and went quietly to her bedroom.

"Francise," she said, as her confidential maid rose on her entrance and laid down some sewing, "tell James that I will lunch alone to-day. Major Wallace is unexpectedly detained and has cancelled his engagement with me."

Kitty found Major Wallace a taciturn companion, and her efforts at conversation elicited only absent-minded, monosyllabic replies as they walked slowly down Connecticut Avenue. It was not until they reached H Street that Wallace awoke from his abstraction.

"The Shoreham is down this way," he expostulated as Kitty continued walking straight ahead. "You must lunch with me, Kitty, you promised."

"I did nothing of the sort," she retorted. "You said that you wished to talk to me and you have had every opportunity to do so. Instead of which you have been silent to the verge of rudeness. Frankly," and her voice was decidedly chilly, "you owe me an explanation—"

"That is just it," he broke in. "Why have you avoided me?"

"I? Avoided you?" The scorn in Kitty’s voice [Pg 160]caused him to color warmly. "I have done nothing of the sort."

"You sent word that you ‘begged to be excused’ when I called to see you," Wallace reminded her bitterly.

"The words were of Oscar’s choosing, not mine," she explained. "You came the night of the inquest, and by Dr. McLean’s orders I denied myself to all callers—"

"But you saw Ted Rodgers?"

"Well, why not?" Her color deepened, but her eyes did not fall before his angry gaze. "It is not your right to dictate to me about anything. And besides," not giving him a chance to interrupt her, "you have had ample time to call since then."

"I’ve been ill—oh, hang it!" as a hurrying pedestrian collided against him. "We can’t talk here. There’s no fun in being jostled about by idiots!"—casting a vindictive glance at the offender, who had just made the street car he had been running to catch.

Kitty eyed Wallace sharply. Never before had she known him so upset in speech and manner. As she observed the careworn lines in his face and the mute appeal in his deep-set eyes, her anger cooled.

"I will lunch with you, Leigh," she said. "But why make such a point of it?"

What answer Wallace would have made remained [Pg 161]unspoken, as a mutual acquaintance swooped down upon them and, utterly ignoring their lack of cordiality, insisted upon accompanying them to the Shoreham. Once inside the hotel restaurant, Wallace lost no time in securing a table in a secluded corner and an attentive waiter took his order for luncheon.

"There, that’s done," and Wallace, with a sigh of satisfaction, laid down the menu card and contemplated Kitty with admiration but thinly veiled. Her mourning was extremely becoming to her blonde beauty. "Is this story true that I hear, Kitty, that your aunt has left you a fortune?"

Kitty considered him in silence. The question had been asked so often by friends and acquaintances that it had lost its novelty; coming from him it surprised her.

"Mr. Craige assures me that I am no longer a pauper," she answered, and her tone was dry.

Wallace flushed. "The papers said that you were wealthy, very wealthy," he persisted.

"It depends on how you compute wealth," she said. "And how much faith you put in newspapers." A faint mocking smile touched her lips and vanished. "Why this interest in my fortune, Leigh?"

"Because," he spoke with unconcealed bitterness, [Pg 162]"it puts another barrier between us. Your aunt’s hatred, and now this, this—"

"Please stop," Kitty raised her hand slightly. "Why keep up the farce longer?"

"Farce?"

"Flirtation, if you like it better," she sighed involuntarily. "Just an idle flirtation."

"Idle nothing! You’d have married me if you hadn’t met Ted Rodgers," he blurted out.

"Stop!" Her tone, though low, was imperative. "Here is luncheon. Suppose we discuss another topic. When does Nina Potter return from New York?"

"I have no idea," shortly. "Have a muffin, do?" and he extended the bread plate toward her, then relapsed into abstracted silence.

Kitty’s healthy young appetite, sharpened by her walk, did full justice to the luncheon, and, not feeling inclined for conversation, she was content to watch the groups of people seated at near-by tables. One pair, obviously a bride and groom, especially attracted her and she turned for another look at them as they left the restaurant. When she faced around toward Wallace again, she saw their waiter slip a note into his hand. It was deftly done and only Kitty’s keen eyes detected the act. Wallace, his face devoid of expression, laid the lunch check and a bank note on the silver salver.

[Pg 163]

"Never mind the change," he said to the waiter, and rising helped Kitty put on her coat and adjust her furs. "I am sorry my car is in the paint shop, but we will get a taxi at the door."

"We’ll do nothing of the sort," objected Kitty. "I don’t propose to put you to all that trouble, Leigh."

Without answering, Wallace led the way down the corridor to the H Street entrance. "Call a taxi," he directed the doorman, then turned to Kitty. "Don’t scold," he begged. "I am going to Fort Myer and it will not take me out of my way to leave you at ‘Rose Hill.’ Here’s the car—" and before Kitty could protest further, she was bundled inside the taxi. Wallace gave a few hurried directions to the chauffeur and then sprang in beside her.

The chauffeur was evidently a novice for he started his car with such a jerk that Kitty was half thrown from her seat. With a muttered word which strongly resembled a curse, Wallace picked up her bag and muff and laid them in her lap.

"The —— fool!" His face was red with anger. "Sorry, Kitty, I have no use for incompetents."

Kitty watched him in wondering silence. In place of a sunny temperament she found uncontrolled irritability; instead of the steady gaze she was familiar with, she became aware of ever shifting eyes. What had changed her cheery companion of [Pg 164]the past into the nervous, unhappy man by her side?

Kitty sighed involuntarily. She had met Leigh Wallace four months before, shortly after he was admitted as a patient at Walter Reed Hospital, at a "birthday party" for the Walter Reed boys at the Theodorus Bailey Myers Mason House, and they had become great friends. Her aunt’s dislike was so general, so far as her friends were concerned, that Kitty had not taken seriously her objections to the gay and handsome army officer. When she finally realized that Miss Susan Baird had conceived what appeared to be an actual hatred of Leigh Wallace, Kitty had tried to reason with her, but to no avail. When Miss Susan Baird had once acquired an idea, the Rock of Gibraltar was as jelly to her.

Kitty had inherited some of the Baird obstinacy, and it was that trait more than anything else which had fanned her liking into a violent flirtation with Wallace. She considered her aunt unjust in her treatment of him and resented her incivility. Her sympathies aroused, she had almost persuaded herself that she was in love with him, and then—Kitty’s face flamed at the recollection. Then she had met Edward Rodgers.

Time had had no place in the development of their friendship. He had been drawn to her with the same irresistible attraction which the North Pole has for the magnetic needle. No word of love had [Pg 165]ever passed his lips, but his eyes—they had pleaded his suit more eloquently than any words.

Absorbed in her thoughts, Kitty was actually startled when the taxi stopped in front of "Rose Hill."

"Won’t you come in?" she asked, as Wallace helped her out of the car.

"No, thanks, I haven’t time." Wallace looked up at the fine old mansion and hesitated a moment. "I’ll try and get in to-night or to-morrow. Say, Kitty, why don’t you go to a hotel?"

"Do what?" Kitty’s astonishment was obvious.

"Close up your house," with hurried emphasis. "You ought not to live there alone. What is Craige thinking of to let you do it?"

"But I am not alone," she pointed out. "Oscar and Mandy are living with me now. Besides—" it was her turn to hesitate. "The police wish the house kept open."

"They do, eh?" Wallace turned and scowled at the mansion. "Have you heard anything, Kitty—any new theories about your aunt’s death?"

She shook her head. "I only know those published in the newspapers," she answered. "The police do not make a confidante of me. Won’t you change your mind, Leigh, and come into the house?"

"I really can’t." Wallace walked with her up the [Pg 166]terraced steps to the front door and laid an impatient hand on the old-fashioned bell-pull.

"Don’t ring!" exclaimed Kitty. "Both of the servants are out. I have my latch-key to the side door. Don’t wait any longer, Leigh, if you are in a hurry."

"Sure you can get in?" Kitty nodded an affirmative. Wallace wavered a moment, glanced at the bunch of keys which Kitty produced from her muff, then cast a fleeting look at the walk which skirted the mansion. "Kitty," he stepped closer to her side, his hands fumbling awkwardly with his hat. "Did you and your aunt really quarrel about me on Sunday?"

Kitty stepped back as if shot. "What an egotistical question?" she stammered, with a brave attempt at a laugh. "On the contrary, Leigh, Aunt Susan and I had words over a matter of no importance; as was our habit. Good-by."

"Good-by—" Wallace echoed her words mechanically, and, without a further glance at her, ran down the steps.

Kitty watched the taxi and its solitary passenger disappear up Q Street before turning toward the brick walk which circled the house and led to the large garden in the rear. She dreaded entering the house alone. It was a feeling which she had not been able to conquer, and she had, on the few occasions when she had gone out, always arranged to [Pg 167]have one of the servants in the house upon her return. Mandy had asked for the afternoon off and Oscar, not being at home when Kitty left to go to Mrs. Parsons, had probably not gotten back in time to be told by Mandy before her departure that he was to await Kitty’s return.

Kitty shook herself. It was not yet four o’clock in the afternoon. It was foolish to give way to nerves. But before turning into the walk, Kitty took one final look down the terraced steps, hoping for a sight of Mandy’s substantial form or old Oscar’s halting walk. Neither was visible. As her glance swept upward, she saw a piece of crumpled paper lying on the step just below her. Stooping over, she picked it up and, observing writing upon it, smoothed out the paper. She had read the few words it bore several times before she took in their meaning.

Leigh, you are watched.

Kitty turned the paper over. It was the one she had seen the waiter at the Shoreham slip surreptitiously into Leigh Wallace’s hand. She recognized the delicate mauve shade of the paper—she also recognized the handwriting. Why had Mrs. Parsons written such a warning to Leigh Wallace?

With her ideas in a whirl Kitty walked slowly around the mansion and to the side door. It gave [Pg 168]entrance to the library. There was a perceptible pause before Kitty unlocked the door and entered the house. She had grown to loathe the library.

Mouchette, aroused from her slumber in front of the fireplace, came forward with many "mews" to greet her. Kitty fondled the cat affectionately before laying down her muff and fur piece on the nearest chair. Going over to the chimney, she poked the smoldering embers on the hearth into a feeble blaze and added some kindling wood.

She had a sense of chill in the room apart from its lack of heat. She could not dissociate her surroundings from the tragedy of Sunday. In her mind’s eye she saw always her aunt’s body lying inert in the throne-shaped chair and in memory she conjured up their last interview on that fatal Sunday afternoon. Her aunt had not spared her feelings. What was it that she had called her—an ingrate! And her last sentence still echoed in Kitty’s ears:

"Mark my words, Kitty, if you don’t conquer this infatuation for Leigh Wallace, it will not be you alone who will suffer. It will kill me."

As Kitty spread out her cold hands to the blaze her eyes again read the message written by Mrs. Parsons on the mauve-colored paper, which she still clutched in her fingers:

Leigh, you are watched.

[Pg 169]

CHAPTER XIII
BRIBERY
Aresounding knock on the side door, through which she had entered the library a few minutes before, caused Kitty to start violently and her hand reached out instinctively to catch the mantel-piece to steady herself. For a second she rested her weight against it, then, controlling her nervousness, she thrust the mauve paper into the pocket of her coat and with reluctance moved over to the side door. Callers did not usually announce their presence in that manner. Miss Susan Baird had never permitted what she termed "familiarity," and no friend, no matter what the degree of intimacy, was ever admitted except through the front door. Her dominating character had forced respect for her peculiarities, and Kitty could recall no one, except herself, who had ever cared to cross her aunt in any particular.

[Pg 170]

With her hand on the door-knob, Kitty hesitated. She was alone in the house and in no mood for visitors. Squaring her shoulders, she pulled the door partly open. Inspector Mitchell was standing on the top step of the small "stoop" which led to the brick walk.

"Good afternoon, Miss Baird," he said, bowing affably. "Can you spare me a few minutes of your time?"

"Why, certainly." Kitty concealed her vexation. The inspector was the last person she had expected to encounter. "Won’t you come in?" and she opened the door to a wider extent. Not waiting for him to remove his overcoat, she hurried across the library and picking up a log from the wood basket by the hearth she stirred the fire to a brighter blaze. On facing about, she found the inspector standing in front of the side door and regarding it with fixed attention.

"This door does not seem exactly in keeping with this house," he said, as Kitty approached him. "I’ve never seen a finer example of Colonial architecture, but this—" laying his hand on the upper section of the door—"this resembles a Dutch door."

"That is exactly what it is, or rather, what Aunt Susan had it converted into," Kitty explained. "Aunt Susan had a bad attack of inflammatory rheumatism about fifteen years ago; she could not [Pg 171]leave the house and sat chiefly in this room. She was devoted to her garden and had this side door cut in half so that she could see outside without having to open the entire door."

"And this panel in the upper half of the door?" Mitchell laid his hand on it as he spoke. "Does it open?"

"Yes, it is a sliding panel." Kitty stifled a yawn. "The builder’s idea of ornamentation, I presume—a door within a door." She smiled. "And rusty with disuse. Oscar has an objection to cleaning brass, or anything in fact that requires ‘elbow grease.’"

"The latch is discolored," Mitchell amended. With a quick motion of his hand he released the catch and pushed the panel backward. "But there is no sign of rust in the hinges. Judging from the way this panel moves, Miss Baird, it is well oiled. See for yourself."

Kitty glanced at him in surprise before moving the panel back and forth. Inspector Mitchell was right; it moved with ease and totally without noise. When pushed to the farthest, the panel left an opening about eight inches square.

"What do you think of that, Miss Baird?" inquired Mitchell.

"I’m sure I don’t know." Kitty’s eyebrows drew together in a perplexed frown. "We never touched [Pg 172]that panel; never had occasion to use it. This," laying her hand on the upper part of the Dutch door, "we frequently kept open in the summer as we get the southwestern breeze through it. We never use this door as a means of exit except to go into the garden."

"You entered by it to-day upon your return," Mitchell remarked and Kitty favored him with a blank stare.

"Were you watching me?" she asked with a touch of coldness.

"I was waiting in the summer house," Mitchell explained, ignoring her manner. "No one answered the front bell and, as I wished very much to see you, I killed time by strolling through the garden. Then you don’t generally use this entrance to the house?"

"No." Kitty regarded him inquiringly, puzzled by his persistent questions on a trivial subject. "Only since Aunt Susan’s death. The lock on this door is modern and the key a reasonable size to carry in my hand bag. Perhaps you recall the key to the front door?" she could not restrain a smile. "It is old-fashioned—"

Mitchell nodded. "I recollect its size," he remarked dryly. "I found it in the key-hole of the front door on Monday morning, just before we discovered your aunt lying dead in this room. Haven’t any idea how the key got there then, have you?"

[Pg 173]

Kitty turned pale. "At the coroner’s inquest I told all that I know of the circumstances surrounding my aunt’s death." She faced him quickly. "Have you made no discoveries bearing on the crime?"

"Only those brought out at the inquest," he replied, with noncommittal brevity. "Come, Miss Baird, suppose we talk over some of the aspects of the case. I won’t detain you very long."

Taking her consent for granted, Inspector Mitchell wheeled forward an armchair and selected another for himself. Mouchette watched them both, then, rising stiffly, deserted her favorite spot near the hearth and perched herself in Kitty’s lap, her loud purr testifying to her contentment as Kitty passed her hands over the soft gray fur. Kitty did not care to break the pause that followed. She was content to remain silent and await developments. Mitchell did not leave her long in doubt as to the direction his thoughts were tending.

"Mr. Craige tells me that you have inherited a pretty fortune," he began. "A very pretty fortune, to be exact. Now, your aunt, if you’ll excuse my directness, lived in, eh," he hesitated, "say, genteel poverty." Kitty nodded somberly. Would people never stop harping on her suddenly acquired wealth? "Where did your aunt get this money she left to you?"

[Pg 174]

"I have no idea," she replied. "I am as ignorant on the subject as you are."

Mitchell eyed her intently. Was it candor which prompted the direct denial or duplicity? She appeared unconscious of his steady gaze, her attention apparently centered on the flickering fire, and her hands, clasped together, rested idly in her lap. Mitchell’s profession had made him a close student of human nature and as he studied her face, partly turned from him, he concluded that Kitty did not lack strength of character and will power, whatever her faults might be.

Was her air of relaxation, of almost dumb inertia, a cloak to hide high-strung, quivering nerves? If he could but shake her composure, he might gain some key to the mystery of her aunt’s murder. Mitchell cleared his throat as he unobtrusively hitched his chair around to obtain a more favorable angle from which to gauge her expression.

"Had your aunt a large correspondence?" he asked.

Kitty shook her head. "Aunt Susan abominated letter-writing," she replied. "My godfather, Mr. Craige, attended to her few business correspondents and I answered any invitations that came to us."

"Had you any relations living outside of Washington?" he asked.

"A few very distant cousins." She shrugged her [Pg 175]shoulders. "My aunt did not encourage intercourse with them."

"Their names, please?" Mitchell pulled out a pencil and notebook and thumbed its pages until he found a blank space.

"A. J. Beekman of Detroit." Kitty watched him in some amusement. "Then there was rather a large family of Smiths in Georgia—I’m sorry I can’t be more definite. Aunt Susan, as I said before, never cultivated her relatives."

"Did she actively dislike them?"

Kitty straightened up and regarded him. "I don’t catch your meaning?"

"My meaning is clear." Mitchell spoke slowly, deliberately. "Did your aunt actively dislike Major Leigh Wallace because of his relationship?"

"His relationship?" echoed Kitty in bewilderment. "He is no relation."

"I beg pardon," with a sarcastic smile. "I happen to know that Leigh Wallace is your cousin."

"Then your knowledge is greater than mine." Kitty curbed her quick temper with an effort and added more quietly, "Whoever told you that was misinformed."

"I think not." Mitchell consulted his notebook before continuing. "Colonel Marcus Holt of San Francisco, was your uncle, was he not?"

"Yes. My mother, Louise Holt, was his sister." [Pg 176]Kitty slipped her arms out of her coat which she had kept on for warmth. The fire was drawing nicely and for the first time she was conscious of the heat it generated. "What prompts your interest in old Colonel Holt? I assure you he died long before Aunt Susan." There was a touch of mockery in her voice and Mitchell smiled grimly.

"I am coming to my point," he said. "Holt’s nephew is Major Leigh Wallace."

Kitty sat bolt upright with such suddenness that Mouchette nearly lost her balance. With an offended air, the cat jumped to the floor and crept under the nearest chair.

"What!" exclaimed Kitty. "Are you sure?"

"And therefore," went on Mitchell, paying no attention to her interruption. "Leigh Wallace must be a relation of yours."

"I suppose so," Kitty admitted thoughtfully. "But why had Leigh never told me that we are related? He has never spoken of being a nephew of Uncle Marcus."

"Nor of inheriting the old colonel’s fortune?"

"Fortune?" Kitty looked blank. "Why, I have always understood that Major Wallace had only his pay. I never knew that he was wealthy."

"His fortune disappeared, the way fortunes have when dissipated away," Mitchell was watching her like a lynx, but her expression of friendly interest [Pg 177]conveyed that and nothing more. The mention of Leigh Wallace’s name had not produced the result he had hoped for. Kitty’s composure had not been shaken. Could it be that she was not in love with him, as rumor reported? Mitchell frowned. He was not making headway.

"Have you ever heard of the Holt will contest in San Francisco?" he asked, after a brief pause.

"Only in a general way. Aunt Susan spoke of it once or twice." Kitty settled back in her chair again. "She never evinced any particular interest in Uncle Marcus, and he on his part ignored our existence. To go back to ancient history—" Kitty’s smile was a trifle mischievous; keeping Inspector Mitchell discussing harmless topics would prevent his harping upon her aunt’s death, and perhaps would hasten his departure—"Uncle Marcus objected to mother marrying my father, and naturally Aunt Susan resented the fact that her brother was unwelcome to his wife’s family."

"So she nursed a grudge against them, did she?"

"Oh, no; she simply had nothing to do with them."

"Then this money which your aunt left to you couldn’t have been given to her by Colonel Holt in his lifetime?" asked Mitchell.

"Good gracious, no." Kitty’s astonishment was [Pg 178]plain. "Aunt Susan’s prejudices were stronger even than her—"

"Love of money?"

Kitty flushed hotly. "I do not care to have slurs cast upon my aunt," she said coldly. "She is not here to defend herself."

"Hold on, Miss Baird," Mitchell protested. "You must realize that your aunt hoarded this wealth which you inherited; otherwise she would have spoken to you or to some one about it. She—" Mitchell came to a full pause, then added impressively: "Your aunt was a miser."

Kitty’s color deepened, but the denial which loyalty prompted remained unspoken. Her sense of justice told her that Inspector Mitchell had spoken truly. What other motive, except love of money, had induced her aunt to live in poverty when she had ample funds to enable her to enjoy every luxury which money could buy?

"Am I to conclude from your questions," she began, "that you connect my aunt’s hidden wealth with her murder?"

"It seems a reasonable hypothesis," he replied. "Take the known facts about the murder—first, your aunt was alone in the house on Sunday afternoon—"

"Was she?"

[Pg 179]

"Do you know anything to the contrary?" quickly.

"No. But," she hesitated, "some one must have been inside the house as well as my aunt."

"And that some one—?"

"Murdered my aunt," looking him calmly in the eyes. "She never committed suicide."

Mitchell regarded her steadfastly. "Can you give me no hint of the identity of your aunt’s caller?" he asked. "Think carefully, Miss Baird. Have you no suspicion who might have murdered your aunt?"

Kitty did not reply at once; instead her hand slipped inside her coat pocket and her fingers closed about the small slip of mauve-colored paper tucked underneath her handkerchief, while the message it bore recurred to her: "Leigh, you are watched."

To what did Mrs. Parsons’ warning allude? To what could it allude? And why did Inspector Mitchell invariably drag Leigh Wallace’s name into their conversation? And what had inspired her aunt’s hatred of Leigh? Could it have been fear? Fear of what—Death? Kitty shuddered, then pulled herself together. She must not let fancies run away with her.

"I know of no one who could have had a motive for killing poor Aunt Susan," she said. "It must have been the work of some one afflicted with homicidal tendencies."

[Pg 180]

"I’ll stake my reputation that it was no maniac," declared Mitchell. "The crime was deliberately planned and by some one with nerves absolutely under control. Look at the manner in which the poison was administered—placed on one side of the knife-blade, so that the prussic acid only touched the piece of peach given to your aunt, and the murderer ate his half in perfect safety. It was neat, devilishly neat!"

"Have you found out where the peaches came from?" asked Kitty.

"No, worse luck." Mitchell frowned. "Very few fruit stores make deliveries on Sunday and those few deny sending any fruit here."

"How about the Italian fruit stands? Have you questioned the dealers?"

Mitchell smiled wryly. "Not many fruit dealers carry peaches at this season. Our operatives have been pretty thorough in their investigations." He paused before adding, "According to their reports no one, man, woman, or child, purchased peaches on Sunday last."

Kitty hesitated. "They may have come from a distance," she suggested. "By parcel post or express. Have you thought of that?"

"Yes, and we found that no package was left here by the express company or post office employees." Mitchell paused to replace his notebook and pencil in [Pg 181]his pocket. "No, Miss Baird, the murderer brought those peaches with him."

"It would seem so," agreed Kitty, thoughtfully.

"And it must have been some one who knew that your aunt liked peaches," went on Mitchell. "Were her tastes generally known among your friends?"

Kitty caught her breath sharply. The question recalled an incident forgotten in the rush of events. Leigh Wallace, on the few occasions when he had been invited to tea with them, had invariably preceded his visit with a basket of fruit, and—each basket had contained peaches!

"I suppose our friends knew that Aunt Susan liked peaches," she said. Her hesitation, slight as it was, was not lost on Mitchell. "I never gave the matter a thought."

"Indeed?" Mitchell did not try to conceal his unbelief. "Do you see much of Mr. Edward Rodgers?"

Kitty actually jumped at the abruptness of the question and its nature. "What earthly business is it of yours whether I see Mr. Rodgers or not?" she demanded indignantly.

"It is not my business." Mitchell smiled apologetically. "It just occurred to me that he might have mentioned the Holt will contest to you."

"To me?" in genuine surprise. "Why should he [Pg 182]speak about Uncle Marcus and the contest over his will?"

"Oh, I don’t know," Mitchell whirled his hat about. "Mr. Rodgers was called in as a handwriting expert. It was one of his big cases, and I thought it likely he might have talked it over with you, seeing Colonel Holt was your uncle."

"I doubt if Mr. Rodgers knows that we were related. From what I have seen of Mr. Rodgers," her color rose as she spoke, "I judge he seldom discusses himself or his work."

"Perhaps not." Mitchell walked over to the side door and laid his hand on the knob. "I won’t detain you any longer, Miss Baird. If you should think of any one who ever evinced any great interest in your aunt’s fondness for peaches, just telephone me. Good afternoon."

Left to herself Kitty stepped up to the fireplace and taking out the piece of mauve-colored paper held it suspended over the flames. But her clutching fingers did not relax their grasp and finally she tucked the paper in the belt of her dress. She laughed mirthlessly as she walked across the library and felt about for a box of matches. Inspector Mitchell, whether he had attained the object of his call or not, had sown seeds of suspicion.

It had grown quite dark and the room, lighted [Pg 183]only by fire, was filled with shadows. Kitty passed a nervous hand over the table ornaments—the matchbox which usually stood near the oil lamp had evidently been misplaced. She was about to look elsewhere when the sound of voices reached her.

"I’se done looked an’ looked," she heard Oscar say. "An’ I tell yo’ ole Miss never left no such papers."

"Please, please keep up your search," a woman’s voice pleaded. "Please, Oscar. I’ll give you more than I promised—a hundred dollars more."

Kitty straightened up and stared about her. The voices sounded clearly in her ears, but surely she was alone in the library? Running over to the tea table, she felt about and snatched up the much-sought matches. The next instant she was back at the lamp and a second later the room was illuminated. She was its only occupant.

Where had the voices come from? As her eyes roved about the library she spied the "Dutch" door near where she was standing. The little panel in the upper half of the door had been left open and through it came faintly the sound of receding footsteps.

Throwing wide the door, Kitty stepped outside. In the gathering darkness no one was visible. She paused in thought, her troubled eyes trying to pierce [Pg 184]the gloom of the desolate garden and the empty pathway circling the mansion. The woman’s voice still echoed in her ears—where, where had she heard its haunting quality before?

[Pg 185]

CHAPTER XIV
AND CORRUPTION
Kitty paused before her bureau and inspected herself in the mirror. It had been a relief to change from her street clothes to a dressing gown. She had spent nearly an hour lying on the couch in her bedroom trying to piece together the puzzling events of the afternoon. On reentering the house she had gone at once to the servants’ quarters; from there she had searched every room, even to the attic. To all appearances Oscar was not in the house. She had then waited in the library, hoping to catch him on his entrance, but evidently he had accompanied the unknown woman away from the house.

Kitty struck her hands together in impotent wrath at the thought. Why had she not realized immediately that the speakers were outside the house, and not wasted precious minutes trying to light the lamp in the library and thus given them time to slip away unseen!

[Pg 186]

Who was the woman? Vainly, Kitty tried to identify her voice. Strive as she did to recall where she had heard it before, it eluded her memory. Why should any woman bribe old Oscar to steal papers which had belonged to her aunt?

With a sigh of utter weariness, Kitty gave up the problem for the moment and continued her dressing. Twenty minutes later, her toilet completed, she stopped before the cheval glass and gave a final pat to her hair. At last, satisfied with her appearance, she hastened into the hall. As she descended the staircase, she heard the rattle of dishes in the dining room and the sound of the dumb-waiter creaking its way upward. With flying footsteps she covered the intervening space and crossed the hall to the pantry.

"Oscar!" she called. "I wish to speak to you at once. Come here."

But the person who stepped from the dining room into the pantry at her imperious summons was not Oscar.

"What yo’ want, Miss Kitty?" asked Mandy.

"Oscar!" She repeated the old servant’s name with ever growing impatience. "I must see him immediately."

"Laws, Miss Kitty, Oscar’s on his way to Front Royal, Virginia, dis hyar minute," explained Mandy, in no wise hurrying her leisurely speech.

[Pg 187]

"On his way where?" gasped Kitty.

"To Front Royal." Mandy lifted her apron and produced from a voluminous pocket a much twisted telegram. "He done got dis hyar message to come at wandst ’cause his brother, the one dat owns a farm five miles from Front Royal, is a dyin’. See what dey done wrote," and she held out the telegram. Kitty read the typed lines with interest before handing the telegram back to Mandy.

"Why didn’t you tell me of this?" she demanded. "Oscar had no business to leave without first speaking to me."

"Laws, Miss Kitty, yo’ warn’t in de house an’ we didn’t know when yo’ ’spected to be back," Mandy explained. "Oscar had to catch the three o’clock train to get there to-night."

"The three o’clock train," Kitty repeated. "The three o’clock train this afternoon."

"Yes, Miss Kitty."

"But—" Kitty passed a bewildered hand across her forehead. "Oscar was here at five o’clock—here at this house."

"Here?" Mandy’s eyes opened, showing the whites more clearly. "What yo’ talkin’ ’bout, Miss Kitty?"

"Oscar was here this afternoon at five o’clock," Kitty stated, speaking more deliberately so as to make certain that Mandy understood what she said. [Pg 188]"I overheard him talking to a woman just outside the library door."

"Yo’ did!" Mandy’s uplifted voice as well as her expression registered complete astonishment. "Did yo’ see him?"

"No. I tell you I overheard him talking to a woman." Kitty’s temper was gaining the upper hand, and she spoke with warmth. "I know Oscar’s voice, Mandy."

"Yes, Miss Kitty," but the old colored woman still looked unconvinced. "Dar’s a heap o’ niggers talks jes’ like Oscar. Is yo’ sure it warn’t dat worthless ’Rastus from nex’ do’?"

"I know it was not ’Rastus," declared Kitty, with emphasis. "Besides, the woman, in speaking to Oscar, addressed him by name."

"She did?" Mandy fell back a step and stared at Kitty. "Oh, go ’way, Miss Kitty, yo’ been dreamin’—why, ’twarn’t possible. I went to de depot with Oscar my own self an’ saw Oscar get on dat train, an’ it done pull out fo’ Front Royal at three o’clock this afternoon."

It was Kitty’s turn to stare at Mandy. The old woman’s beady black eyes did not shift their gaze. A full minute passed before Kitty broke the silence.

"When did you return, Mandy?" she asked.

"’Bout six or a few minutes after," Mandy said. "I come upstairs an’ listened to hear ef yo’ was in [Pg 189]de house. I didn’t hear nuffin’ an’ didn’t see no light, so I went back to de kitchen to get dinner. I s’posed yo’ hadn’t come in."

"I was lying down—"

Mandy’s worried expression changed to one of relief and she did not permit Kitty to finish her sentence.

"Dar now, I ’spects yo’ jes’ drap off to sleep an’ dreamed ’bout Oscar bein’ hyar," she exclaimed. "Dat was it, Honey, dat was it!"

"Oh, was that it?" Kitty’s voice lacked heartiness. "All right, Mandy. Serve dinner when it is ready."

"Yes, Miss Kitty; it won’t be a minute now. I’se got a real tasty chicken a broilin’. Jes’ go set down, chile; trust ole Mandy to look after yo’." And she gave the girl’s arm a friendly squeeze as Kitty passed her to go into the dining room.

Kitty did not sit down at once. Her thoughts were in a turmoil as she paced up and down the room. Was Mandy right? Had she dreamed overhearing an unknown woman offer Oscar a bribe to steal papers which had belonged to her aunt? Her aimless footsteps carried her into the library and to the Dutch door. The small panel stood open. Kitty’s eyes strayed from it to the telephone. On impulse she crossed to the instrument and took up the telephone directory. It took her but a moment [Pg 190]to find the number she wished, then she paused. Should she call Edward Rodgers or her cousin, Ben Potter?

She had seen or heard nothing from either Ben or his wife since late Tuesday afternoon after the inquest, when they had stopped for a brief moment to tell of their contemplated trip to New York and to suggest that she accompany them. She had been tempted to accept their invitation. A longing to run away from the mansion which she had called home from her earliest recollection, to separate herself from the tragedy of her aunt’s murder had almost overpowered her. But her sense of horror at the crime, her determination to solve the mystery and bring her aunt’s murderer to justice had conquered, and she had stayed on at the old house, refusing to follow Charles Craige’s suggestion that she engage a trained nurse as a companion and go to a hotel. Nina Potter had promised to telephone to her immediately upon their return from New York, but so far she had received no message from her.

Kitty felt urgent need of clear-headed advice. Instinctively, she took up the telephone instrument. She had not seen Edward Rodgers since Tuesday night when they had discovered her aunt’s will secreted under the plaster cast of the Gila monster, but he would come at her call—her woman’s instinct told her that.

[Pg 191]

The telephone bell sounded with such suddenness that she almost dropped the instrument. Recovering herself she took off the receiver.

"Is that you, Miss Baird?" Edward Rodgers’ deep tones were music in her ears. "Will you be in this evening? Can I see you?"

His questions came in such swift succession that Kitty had no chance to answer each individually.

"Do come," she called back. "I’ll be very glad to see you."

"Righto—" The connection was poor and his voice sounded faintly over the wires. "In about an hour." With heightened color she hung up the receiver and Mandy, entering the dining room some seconds later, found her sitting demurely at her place at the head of the table, waiting patiently for the "tasty" broiled chicken.

During the service of the meal, Mandy kept up a running chatter of conversation, talking on any subject, regardless of its relevancy. Several times Kitty regarded her in surprise; it was not like Mandy to be garrulous.

"I’ve been fixin’ to tell yo’," she announced as she removed the dessert plate, "dat Mrs. Potter done telephone yo’ jes’ a few minutes after yo’ left this mawnin’. I declare yo’ put it outer my haid when yo’ telled me ’bout yo’ dreamin’ Oscar was hyar at five o’clock."

[Pg 192]

"Did Mrs. Potter say how she was, Mandy?" asked Kitty, as she arose.

"She had a mighty bad cold an’ I couldn’t hardly hear what she said, noways." Mandy advanced, silver coffee pot in hand. "Ain’t yo’ gwine ter take yo’ coffee?"

"Yes, in the library. And Mandy, bring another cup," Kitty paused. "I am expecting Mr. Rodgers. There is the bell now—"

Mandy was smiling to herself as she walked toward the front door. Her smile broadened into an expansive grin at sight of Edward Rodgers.

"Come right in, Sah: Miss Kitty’s ’spectin’ yo’ in the lib’ry." She hovered about while he removed his hat and overcoat. "I’se glad yo’ve come; Miss Kitty’s kinda peaked. It’s nice yo’ can keep her company."

"Thanks." Rodgers’ dry tone was totally lost on Mandy. With a flourishing twist of the portières in front of the library door she announced:

"Mister Rodgers—" and discreetly disappeared inside her pantry.

As Kitty felt Rodgers’ strong handclasp and met his ardent gaze, her heart beat more swiftly. Rodgers, scarcely conscious that he still held her hand, was unaware of the brief pause, being content to watch Kitty’s piquant beauty.

[Pg 193]

"I’ve wanted to see you—to be with you," he stammered. "It’s been an eternity."

Kitty’s soft laugh interrupted him. "Come and sit down," she said. "I’m particularly glad you came to-night, for I want your advice badly."

"You do?" Rodgers followed her to the leather-covered lounge and sat down by her. "What about?"

"Hush!" Kitty had caught the sound of Mandy’s heavy tread in the hall. "I’ll tell you later after we have had our coffee. Come in, Mandy." Kitty raised her voice. "Bring the tray here and place it on this table."

With Rodgers’ aid the old servant made room on the table for her tray, then, with a respectful "good night," she stumped away, taking care to drop the portières back in place. As Rodgers bent to pick up a napkin which he had inadvertently dropped, Kitty caught sight of the cuts on his head partially covered by a dressing.

"Good gracious! What have you done to yourself?" she cried.

"Ran head first into a door," replied Rodgers.

"Are you sure you are not badly hurt?" she asked gravely, noting the pallor of his usually ruddy cheeks. At the solicitude in her voice Rodgers colored and his eyes shone.

"Quite sure," he said, then made haste to change [Pg 194]the subject. "Have you seen Ben Potter to-day?"

"No. Nina telephoned to me this morning while I was out." She handed him her empty coffee cup to put down. "I haven’t seen Ben since the day of the inquest."

Rodgers hesitated a moment. "Forgive the question—but—are you and he great friends?"

Kitty regarded him gravely. "Not great friends; we sometimes have spats," she admitted. A mischievous smile brought out her pretty dimples. "Our last dispute was on the subject of deportment and dress. I do not see how Nina stands his Puritanical ideas."

"Doesn’t he approve of gay colors?"

"Gay colors!" Kitty laughed outright. "I should say not. Why, he nearly had a fit whenever I appeared in my red coat."

"He is a man of queer ideas," Rodgers commented dryly. "The red coat was most becoming to you. By the way, I haven’t seen you wear it lately."

"I am having the coat dyed—" Seeing his surprised expression, she added, "Not because Ben disliked the color, but it was too faded."

"Did you take the coat to be dyed?" asked Rodgers, and she wondered at the persistency of his gaze.

"No. I gave it to Aunt Susan one day last week." Kitty sat bolt upright. "Dear me, I won[Pg 195]der at which cleaning establishment she left the coat."

"You have no idea where it is?"

"Not the faintest idea in this world; Aunt Susan never dealt long at any one shop." Kitty shook her head. "The events of the past few days put the coat entirely out of my mind."

"Then your aunt was the last person to have your coat—?"

"She was certainly the last person in this household to handle it," she answered. "You speak as if the coat was of some consequence—" with a quick surprised glance at him.

Rogers paused as Oscar’s warning recurred to him "She mustn’t know nawthin’." Whatever the old negro’s reasons might be for asking him not to discuss the red coat with Kitty—whether important or unimportant—he would keep faith with the old negro and not tell her of the incidents of the morning.

"I always liked the coat," he declared. "Suppose you don’t get it back—?"

"Oh, the cleaners, whoever they are, will probably send it back when it is dyed so as to get paid," she answered carelessly. "It is a small loss anyway for the coat was about worn out." She sighed involuntarily and Rodgers looked at her intently.

"Isn’t this house getting on your nerves?" he [Pg 196]asked, observing the deep shadows under her eyes which told their story of wakeful nights and frayed nerves.

"Not so much the house as the mystery," she admitted, with a slight shiver. "Have you discovered any clues?"

Rodgers touched a small "I.O.U." paper safely tucked inside his vest pocket. "Nothing of any consequence," he confessed. "I tried to see Inspector Mitchell this afternoon, but he never returned to Headquarters."

"He was here." Kitty paused and considered her companion. The mention of Inspector Mitchell brought back his questions about the Holt will contest. "By the way, the inspector asked if you had ever told me about the law suit over Colonel Holt’s will."

Rodgers laid down his cigarette case unopened. "The Holt will case," he exclaimed. "Of what possible interest could that be to you?"

"Colonel Holt was my uncle." Observing his surprised expression, she added, "The inspector suggested that perhaps the fortune Aunt Susan left to me was given to her by Colonel Holt. I told him the idea was preposterous. Why, Aunt Susan would have nothing to do with Uncle Marcus. To my knowledge she never saw him. I doubt if he even knew of my existence."

[Pg 197]

Rodgers selected a cigarette. "May I smoke?" he asked, and for answer she handed him a box of matches. "I wish you and Colonel Holt had known each other. He was a fine old man; looked like a soldier of the French Empire."

"Was he a friend of yours?"

"I knew him slightly in a business way." Rodgers puffed at his cigarette until he had it drawing nicely. "How did Mitchell come to know that you were related?"

"I don’t know," Kitty laughed a trifle vexedly. "The inspector evidently informed himself as to my relations; he even told me that Leigh Wallace and I are cousins."

Rodgers favored the "grandfather" clock across the library with a prolonged stare. Kitty was commencing to wonder at his silence, when he turned and addressed her.

"So you and Leigh are cousins," he said. "I had not realized that before. How near is the relationship?"

"We are first cousins, if what Inspector Mitchell said is true. My mother was Louise Holt, and I suppose her half-sister, Anne, was Leigh’s mother. Odd, is it not, that Leigh never spoke of being related to me?" she added, after a slight pause.

Rodgers’ gaze was transferred from the clock to [Pg 198]Kitty. "Was your aunt aware of the relationship?" he asked.

"I imagine not. We haven’t spoken of Colonel Holt for years," she answered. "Inspector Mitchell said the law suit was one of your big cases."

"I was called in as a handwriting expert." Rodgers moved restlessly. "Has Mitchell discovered any clues to your aunt’s murder?"

"If he has, he has not confided them to me," she smiled mirthlessly. "He has succeeded in making me feel very uncomfortable—"

"In what way?" quickly.

"With his suspicions," she hesitated. "He insinuated that—" she did not complete her sentence; her eyes had strayed to the framed photograph of Leigh Wallace standing on a near-by table. After all, she could not voice her suspicions to Edward Rodgers. For nearly a month she had been aware of a growing coolness between the two men, and Wallace had been at no pains to conceal his anger whenever he had seen Kitty walking or motoring with Rodgers. Kitty had never detected any alteration in Rodgers’ manner to Wallace. Whatever his opinion of the latter’s surly behavior it had been cloaked under his customary air of good fellowship.

"I have something to tell you of more importance than Inspector Mitchell’s veiled insinuations," [Pg 199]she said, speaking rapidly to cover her change of topic. "Just after the Inspector’s departure I was standing here by this table," indicating it as she spoke, "when the sound of voices reached me and I heard Oscar say: ‘I’se done looked an’ looked, an’ I tell yo’ ole Miss never left no sech papers.’ And a woman’s voice replied: ‘Please, please keep up your search, Oscar. I’ll give you more than I promised—a hundred dollars more.’"

Rodgers threw away his cigarette and stared at Kitty.

"Who was the woman?" he demanded.

"I do not know." Kitty rose and walked over to the Dutch door. "I tried to light the library lamp and wasted valuable seconds hunting for matches. When I finally got the lamp lighted, I found that I was alone in the library and the voices had come through this panel," laying her hand on it as she spoke. "I dashed outside but Oscar and his companion had disappeared in the darkness."

Rodgers followed her to the Dutch door, his face expressing both astonishment and deep attention.

"Have you no idea who the woman was?" he asked. "Hasn’t Oscar told you her name and why she was bribing him?"

"Oscar," Kitty paused and looked carefully about the library. "Oscar, according to his wife, took the three o’clock train to Front Royal this afternoon."

[Pg 200]

"He did what?" shouted Rodgers, then at her startled look, he added more quietly, "Do you mean that Oscar has left Washington?"

"So Mandy told me."

Rodgers considered Kitty in silence.... Oscar a runaway—the red coat practically destroyed by fire—the I.O.U.—

Kitty was commencing to wonder at the prolonged silence when Rodgers spoke.

"At what hour did you overhear Oscar’s conversation with the unknown woman?" he asked.

"About five o’clock."

Rodgers stroked his chin thoughtfully. "I should say that there was a nigger in the wood-pile," he said softly. "You are quite sure it was Oscar talking to the woman."

"Absolutely positive."

"Did you recognize the woman’s voice?"

Kitty shook her head. "Her voice haunts me still," she said. "But I cannot place it. The whole affair bewilders me. I do not know what to think, what to conjecture. Our Oscar and Mandy, my aunt’s faithful old servants, in league against me? Has some one bribed them to lie and steal—and with what object?"

Rodgers did not reply at once. Suddenly he reached over and, pressing the catch, slid the panel back and forth as Inspector Mitchell had done sev[Pg 201]eral hours previously. His action reminded Kitty of the incident.

"That panel seems to fascinate you men," she exclaimed. "Inspector Mitchell spent fully ten minutes commenting upon its well oiled hinges and its possible use."

"Its use?" Rodgers’ voice was of the carrying quality, and it sounded distinctly through the open panel to a figure crouching in the shadow of the house. "Has the panel been used for any special purpose?"

"No, it is purely ornamental."

"Didn’t the postman ever drop mail through it?"

"No. Our mail box is fastened to the front door."

Rodgers’ gaze had strayed to the floor. Stooping down he rubbed his hand over the bare hardwood boards. "Your flooring is well worn right here," he said. "Some weight or some one has stood here constantly. Bend closer and you will see that the varnish is completely worn away."

Kitty followed his suggestion. "I don’t understand," she exclaimed, standing erect. "It bewilders me. What does it mean?"

"Some one has been using this panel—for what purpose we have yet to find out." Rodgers spoke half to himself, then asked more loudly: "Have you given all your aunt’s papers to Mr. Craige?"

[Pg 202]

"Yes—even old letters."

"Do you know their contents?"

"I did not stop to read them all." Kitty’s troubled expression deepened. "I gave him every paper I could find."

"I am glad Mr. Craige has them," exclaimed Rodgers heartily. "If he has the papers which the woman bribed Oscar to secure for her, we can solve that mystery. There is just one other question, Miss Baird. Did your aunt see very much of Mrs. Amos Parsons?"

Outside in the shadows the listening figure stiffened as it bent dangerously close to catch Kitty’s answer.

"Not any more than Aunt Susan could help—" Kitty’s tired young voice held a hint of mirth as it came through the open panel. "She abominated Mrs. Parsons and deeply resented my acting as her secretary."

Rodgers contemplated Kitty for several seconds, then stepped briskly toward the telephone.

"With your permission," he said, "I’ll call up Mr. Craige and ask if he can see us this evening."

[Pg 203]

CHAPTER XV
BOUND IN RED TAPE
"Whar yo’ goin’, Honey, at dis time o’ night?" Mandy’s voice was raised in shocked expostulation and Kitty could not refrain from a smile. She had interrupted the old servant in the act of arranging her bedroom for the night when she had entered a moment before and taken her heavy overcoat and hat out of the closet.

"Mr. Rodgers is going to run me over to see my godfather, Mr. Craige," she explained as she arranged her veil. "Don’t wait up for me, Mandy; I have the key of the side door and can let myself in. You are not afraid to stay here alone, are you?"

"No’m." But Mandy spoke with no enthusiasm. "I ain’t skeered, kexactly, but yo’ won’t be very late, will yo’?"

"Oh, no." Kitty glanced at the clock on her dressing table. "It is only a quarter of nine, Mandy; I’ll be back within the hour. Sit down be[Pg 204]fore the fire," pointing to the grate where Mandy, with solicitous forethought had built a coal fire for her young mistress to enjoy when undressing, "and make yourself comfortable. Don’t stay in a cold kitchen."

"Thank yo’, Miss Kitty. I ’spects I’d ruther stay up hyar, it’s mo’ cheerful." Mandy walked into the hall with her. "Mind yo’ keep that collar buttoned up."

"All right, Mandy." Kitty, touched by the old woman’s care for her, laid her hand for a minute on her rounded shoulder. "Don’t worry and keep warm."

Mandy waited in the hall, her woolly head, covered with a bright bandanna handkerchief, cocked in a listening attitude until she heard Kitty and Ted Rodgers depart and the side door closed. Taking a general survey of the empty hall, Mandy limped back into Kitty’s bedroom and drew a tufted armchair up to the grate, selecting a "comfortable" from those stored in the hall closet and wrapping herself in it, she settled down in the chair. For a time she was wakeful, but as the hands of the clock approached the hour, her head drooped sideways and a subdued snore gave proof that she had fallen asleep. So sound was her slumber that the incessant clatter of the bell on the branch telephone, [Pg 205]which Kitty had had installed the day before, made no impression upon her.

From her corner near the fire the angora cat, Mouchette, slumbered also. A shower of sparks, as a piece of burning cannel-coal dropped through the grate, singed her fur and woke her just as a figure crept through the partly open bedroom door and into the room. Its objective seemed to be an old-fashioned secretary in the southeast corner of the room. At sight of Mandy, asleep in the chair, the intruder paused, listened attentively to her regular breathing, then, reassured, moved onward across the room, followed by Mouchette’s large yellow eyes.

The cat licked her singed fur, then, with a faint "mew," started in the direction of the secretary. A second later a graceful leap had landed her on the chair beside it, and she purred contentedly as the intruder turned and gently stroked her head. In her chair by the fire old Mandy snored peacefully, oblivious alike of the rustle of papers being removed from the secretary and the antics of the cat.

Kitty was relieved to find Ted Rodgers a silent companion as they drove out to Chevy Chase, for she was in no mood for small talk. The rush of the cold air against her hot cheeks and the steady throb of the motor as the car raced up one hill and down another brought a sense of relaxation and [Pg 206]rest to her tired nerves. A restless longing to get out of the house, away from her thoughts, had pursued her all day. The big, silent man by her side and his air of protection were a tonic in themselves, and she forgot her sorrows and perplexities in the enjoyment of the unexpected trip to Chevy Chase, Washington’s fashionable suburb.

Nearly a year before, Charles Craige had purchased from one of his clients a cottage in Chevy Chase and had moved his Lares and Penates from his bachelor apartment in the Hadleigh. His English butler, Lambert, and the latter’s wife, Mildred, ran his house for him, as they had his apartment. Invitations to his hospitable entertainments were eagerly sought, for he was a born host and nothing gave him more delight than to have his friends about him. Mothers with marriageable daughters and widows never lost hope of catching so worthwhile a parti and Craige had been reported engaged upon numerous occasions. Kitty had always entertained a genuine affection for her godfather, to whose kind offices she had owed many attentions upon her debut in Washington society. It was he who had introduced her to Mrs. Parsons, and through his suggestion the gay widow had secured Kitty as her social secretary.

In what seemed an incredibly short time to Kitty, Ted Rodgers drove his roadster under the porte-[Pg 207]cochère of "Hideaway." Lambert came immediately in answer to Kitty’s ring, and his usually solemn manner thawed at the sight of her.

"The master will be ’ere in a moment," he explained, helping them off with their wraps. "Just step into the living room, Miss Kitty. I ’ave a fresh fire laid there. Mr. Craige told me you were h’expected."

The living room always aroused Ted Rodgers’ admiration, for it represented his idea of comfort combined with good taste. Craige had a love of art and an appreciation of the beautiful and ample means to gratify both. In furnishing his house, he had spared no expense.

"Aunt Susan was very fond of this room," Kitty said as she wandered about examining the paintings on the walls. "She and Mr. Craige were great cronies. In fact," and Kitty’s smile showed each pretty dimple, "he was about the only man she approved of."

"So she told me," Rodgers’ smile was fleeting. "I wasn’t in her good graces—" he stooped to pick up the fire-tongs which Lambert had inadvertently left lying on the floor before the brass fender when hurrying to answer the front door bell. "Your aunt gave me to understand at our last interview that I was persona non grata. Had she lived," Rodgers [Pg 208]paused and looked at Kitty, "I imagine she would have tried to turn you against me."

Kitty blushed. "It wasn’t you in particular," she began impulsively. "Aunt Susan was frequently discourteous to my friends. There were none she liked when she found they—they—that is, that they liked me." She laughed to cover her confusion.

"They wished to marry you—as I do—" the words caught her unawares. "Kitty, my darling," he pleaded. "Don’t turn from me; give me a chance. I’ve loved you so silently, so deeply—" his voice shook with feeling. "You have grown to be my life—my religion—"

"Hush!"

"No; you must hear me, Kitty." He was pale with the intensity of his emotion. "I thought that I could be content just to see you—to be with you; but it has gone beyond that. I must know if there is a chance for me. Is there, my dearest? I know that I am unworthy—"

Kitty’s heart was beating to suffocation as she turned bravely and faced him. She had flirted many a time before and had turned aside a proposal with light-hearted banter, but her coquetry had deserted her utterly.

"Ted!" she whispered.

"Kitty!" In an instant his arms were about her. "Kitty!" His voice deepened. "My best be[Pg 209]loved—" and as she raised her head to look into his eyes their lips met in the first kiss of love.

Forgetful of all else save each other, the lovers were brought back to the everyday world and their surroundings by a determined cough. Looking hastily around, Kitty spied Charles Craige regarding them from the doorway.

"Sorry to interrupt," he said dryly; then as Kitty ran to him, her eyes like twin stars and the rich color mantling her cheeks, his manner altered and his tone grew tender. "Dear child, in so far as I may, I give you a father’s blessing. Rodgers, you are to be congratulated," and his hearty handshake emphasized his words. His eyes strayed to a large portrait photograph of Mrs. Amos Parsons which was the chief ornament on the mantel-piece. "I can understand and appreciate your happiness," he added. "I hope some day soon to tell you I have won the dearest woman in the world—"

"Except one—" broke in Rodgers, glancing proudly at Kitty.

"Perhaps so," agreed Craige cheerily. "And when is the engagement to be announced?"

"Oh, don’t say a word about it, please," Kitty begged; then, with a quick shy glance at Rodgers, "We must keep the secret until the mystery surrounding Aunt Susan’s death is solved."

"It makes a double incentive to clear up the case," [Pg 210]declared Rodgers. "Come, Kitty, sit by the fire and I’ll explain to Craige the errand which brought us to see him to-night."

Obediently, Kitty curled herself up on the big sofa which stood facing the huge open fireplace. Her unhappy restlessness had deserted her. In its stead a feeling of peace, of renewed courage and unutterable happiness encompassed her, and she was content to sit idly by and watch the two men. As they stood with their backs to the fire, she was struck by their distinguished appearance. Craige, with his iron-grey hair and dark moustache, was the handsomer of the two, but Kitty decided that Rodgers’ more rugged features, offset by the deep dimple, almost a cleft in his chin, indicated the more determined character. His dark hair was inclined to curl, in spite of every effort on his part to keep it straight, and Kitty liked its wavy appearance better than the severe style which Craige preferred. As Craige held a match to Rodgers’ cigar she was surprised by their similarity in height. Had any one asked her she would have said that Rodgers was the heavier and the taller by a quarter of an inch.

"This afternoon," Rodgers had waited to commence his explanation of their call until his cigar was drawing nicely. "Kitty overheard an unknown woman bribe Oscar to steal some papers which had belonged to her aunt, Miss Susan Baird."

[Pg 211]

"That is interesting," Craige pulled his mustache thoughtfully. "You say the woman was unknown. Describe her appearance, Kitty."

"I can’t, for I did not see her," she explained. "The woman had gone when I looked into the garden, and Oscar with her."

"Then you haven’t questioned Oscar?"

"Oscar," Kitty spoke more slowly, "according to Mandy, Oscar was on the train to Front Royal this afternoon, but I can swear that it was Oscar I heard; also the woman called him by name."

"Then it must have been Oscar," Craige commented dryly. "And Mandy lied to you."

"What could have been her object?" asked Kitty. "She must realize that we can trace Oscar’s whereabouts."

"That is already being done by the police," Rodgers put in quickly. "I called up Inspector Mitchell from your house, Kitty, while you were upstairs getting your wraps, and told him that Oscar had disappeared. He promised to try and locate the old man at once."

"Good!" Craige’s tone spoke his satisfaction. "Now, as to the woman, did her voice give you no clue to her identity, Kitty?"

"No, I could not place it—" Kitty hesitated. "But I am convinced that I have heard her voice before."

"Very likely," agreed Craige. "It must have [Pg 212]been some one who knew your aunt, and therefore is probably acquainted with you, also. Now, what papers could she have wanted?"

"That is the question which has brought us to see you," Kitty explained. "Yesterday I gave you the contents of Aunt Susan’s desk—"

"Her papers are here—" As he spoke, Craige went over to a table and pulling out one of the drawers, carried it back to the sofa and put it down by Kitty. "Hereafter I will keep all Susan’s papers in my office vault, now that I know some one is vitally interested in gaining possession of them."

"Have you looked them over?" questioned Rodgers.

Craige nodded assent. "They are receipted bills for taxes, marketing, and so forth. See, Kitty," holding up a bundle neatly tied with red tape. "Your aunt was very methodical."

"She was indeed," Kitty sighed as she untied one of the bundles. "Suppose we each take a package and run through it."

Silence prevailed while the packages were being opened and gone over with a thoroughness which omitted nothing. Kitty’s nimble fingers made quicker work of the knotted red tape and therefore to her fell the last bundle in the drawer. As she turned over the commonplace receipted bills, most of them for groceries and coal, she thought bitterly [Pg 213]of the frugality which she and her aunt had needlessly practiced, and of the years she had spent in denying herself pleasures which the average American girl accepts, not as luxuries, but as necessities. Expert bank officials had estimated the negotiable securities and money left by her aunt as totalling over eight hundred thousand dollars—nearly a million—and her aunt had lived a life of genteel poverty during all the years that Kitty could remember.

As Kitty sorted the bills in her lap, a small envelope, yellow and worn with age, tumbled out. She opened it and, unfolding the old-fashioned note paper, read the cramped penmanship with some difficulty.

"This is evidently a love letter addressed to Aunt Susan," she exclaimed. "Listen," and she read aloud:

Richmond, Va., April 1, 1867.

My Darling Susan:

I have called upon your mother and disclosed my affection for you, and she has graciously given me permission to marry you.

I hope that I may never meet with your disapprobation.

Transported with joy and expectation, I am

Your fond lover,

James Leigh Wallace.

Kitty looked at her companions in wide-eyed as[Pg 214]tonishment. "James Leigh Wallace," she repeated. "Who could that be?"

"Leigh Wallace’s father," Rodgers replied. "I knew the old man. But—" he paused, "that James Leigh Wallace married Colonel Holt’s sister, Anne Holt."

Craige completed his examination of old receipts and retied the bundle. "Do you suppose, Kitty, that your aunt could have been secretly married?" he asked.

For answer Kitty held up a small object and a newspaper clipping which she had taken a second before from the envelope containing the love letter.

"It is a withered rose," she said softly, holding it out in the palm of her hand. "And this—" she opened the clipping—"the notice of the marriage in San Francisco of Anne Holt to James Leigh Wallace, on April 1, 1869." She looked up in wonder. "See, here at the bottom of the clipping is written one word in Aunt Susan’s handwriting—‘jilted!’"

Craige was the first to speak.

"It is not surprising that Miss Susan Baird hated young Leigh Wallace," he remarked quietly. "She was not the type of woman to forgive an injury or forget an insult."

[Pg 215]

CHAPTER XVI
A STARTLING ENCOUNTER
Ted Rodgers ran down the three steps leading to the porte-cochère of "Hideaway," and opened the door of his car.

"Wouldn’t you like to drive?" he asked, turning to Kitty standing in the doorway with Charles Craige. Kitty’s hesitation was brief.

"Indeed I would!" she exclaimed. "I feel all keyed up—"

Craige smiled indulgently. "Get as much pleasure as you can," he advised. "You deserve the good things of life, Kitty. Now, put your aunt’s tragic death out of your mind—for to-night, at least," observing her sober expression. "I will see you to-morrow and we will make a further search among your aunt’s belongings for the papers wanted so mysteriously. Rodgers, take good care of her," and he waved his hand in farewell as Kitty started the car down the driveway.

Craige’s picturesque cottage, "Hideaway," concealed from its neighbors by tall box hedges, was [Pg 216]located on a street near Chevy Chase Circle, and, as their car made the turn around it, Rodgers bent closer to Kitty.

"Let’s run through Rock Creek Park," he coaxed. "It isn’t very much further, and—" his voice grew very tender. "I want so to talk to you all by yourself."

Kitty wavered a moment in doubt. She had promised Mandy to return within the hour—but she had already stayed more than an hour at her godfather’s home. Probably Mandy had long since gone to bed. Rodgers’ hand on her’s settled her hesitation as, with tender clasp, he turned the steering wheel toward the road leading into the park.

The heavy wind of the early evening had died down and as they sped down the moonlit road Kitty’s cup of happiness seemed filled to the brim. They drove in silence—the silence of perfect companionship and understanding—each content with the other’s presence and their thought of one another.

"Stop here a moment; the view over the Park is wonderful." Rodgers leaned forward and pushed up the windshield to the farthest limit. "You can see better now." But when Kitty slowed down at the side of the road she found him regarding her and not the moonlight on the rolling hills and valley before them.

[Pg 217]

"You meant it, Kitty; you do care for me?" he asked wistfully. "Really care?"

Kitty’s soft laugh held happiness behind it. "I care so much—" her voice dropped to a mere whisper and he had to lean still closer to catch what she said. "My love is yours, always—always."

Rodgers held her in close embrace. "My beloved," he murmured and he kissed her with a fervor which left her breathless.

"Ted," she said, a little later. "Aunt Susan’s love letter haunts me. It told a pitiful story."

He nodded soberly. "Perhaps that is what warped her nature," he suggested. "James Leigh Wallace was an out-and-out scoundrel. He gambled his soul away—anything to gain money to lose in some gambling hell."

"I never heard of him before," she replied. "Now I understand Aunt Susan’s antipathy to his son. I thought it unreasoning dislike. Leigh—" she hesitated.

"I’ve been so jealous of Leigh," Rodgers confessed. "Every one thought you were engaged."

"People are such idiots!" she ejaculated, then added almost in a whisper, "It was always you, dear, never Leigh, that I cared for. He was with me because—because Nina Potter and I were together."

A low whistle escaped Rodgers. "By jove!" he [Pg 218]exclaimed. "I did hear some time ago that Leigh was attentive to a Miss Underwood—it never dawned on me that she was the one who married Ben Potter."

"Did you know Leigh very well in San Francisco?" asked Kitty.

"Pretty well, before he entered the army—civilian appointment, you know," he added. "I used to see him frequently at Mrs. Parsons’ home in San Francisco. By the way, Ben was a great friend of hers in those days."

"Who, Mrs. Parsons—?" quickly.

"Yes—some people thought she might marry him."

Kitty smiled. "The idea is droll," she commented. "Ben has chosen a much more suitable wife. I cannot imagine Mrs. Parsons and Ben in love with each other; they are such opposite natures. But, dear," turning troubled eyes toward him, "you say Mrs. Parsons and Leigh were good friends—there’s something I must tell you. Just vague suspicions," she hesitated. "I cannot bear to be disloyal—to harbor suspicions against a man I have called my friend, but—" she took from her pocket a piece of mauve-colored paper—"I lunched with Leigh to-day at the Shoreham and our waiter slipped this paper into his hand. Leigh carelessly dropped it on [Pg 219]my doorstep, and not realizing what I was doing, I read it."

Rodgers took the paper and, holding it under the dash-light, peered at the writing. "Leigh, you are watched," he read the words aloud and then reversed the paper.

"There is nothing else on it," Kitty explained. "But the message is in Mrs. Parsons’ handwriting."

In the darkness Kitty failed to see Rodgers’ odd expression. After waiting vainly for some comment, she added, "Do you suppose that Mrs. Parsons suspects Leigh is in some way responsible for Aunt Susan’s death?"

"That might be inferred." Rodgers folded the paper and placed it carefully in his leather wallet. "With your permission, I’ll keep this."

"Certainly, Ted." Kitty put her foot on the self-starter. "I am only too thankful to give it to you and to have you, dear, to confide in." He returned her warm handclasp with a grip that hurt. "But, Ted, how is it that Mrs. Parsons knows that the police are watching Leigh?"

"The police?" echoed Rodgers. "Oh, ah, yes. Perhaps she has had another call from Inspector Mitchell; I saw him coming away from there yesterday."

"But why in the world should he confide in Mrs. Parsons?"

[Pg 220]

"I don’t know—" Rodgers was frowning in the darkness, and Kitty, intent on starting the car, did not notice the alteration in his voice. "I don’t know why any one puts trust in Mrs. Parsons."

"Why, Ted!" Kitty looked at him in surprise. "I never knew you disliked Mrs. Parsons."

"I have no use for her," he admitted. "I never did like cats—even your Mouchette."

"Imagine putting Mrs. Parsons in a class with Mouchette," Kitty chuckled, then grew grave. "Ted, you don’t suppose, really suppose, that Leigh could have killed Aunt Susan, a defenceless old lady."

"With a serpent’s tongue." The words were no sooner spoken than Rodgers regretted them. "Forgive me, darling—"

"I know poor Aunt Susan was not loved—." A sigh escaped Kitty. "Can it be that Aunt Susan quarreled with Leigh over his father’s treatment of her—"

"It might be," Rodgers’ tone was grave. "But so far we do not even know that Leigh was at your house on Sunday afternoon. Don’t brood over the tragedy, Kitty: forget it, for to-night, at least. Here’s a clear stretch of road ahead—step on the gas."

Instinctively, Kitty followed his suggestion and the car shot ahead. The wind fanned their cheeks through the opened windshield, and Kitty was con[Pg 221]scious of a feeling of exhilaration as they tore onward, gathering speed with each throb of the powerful engine. In the distance Kitty descried a car approaching and dimmed her headlights. The courtesy was not returned; instead a spotlight swung directly on them and Kitty, blinded by the glare, swerved to the right as the oncoming car swept up. She heard a deafening report, something swished by her, and the car raced up the road they had just traversed.

Checking the speed of her own car, Kitty swung it back into the center of the road and turned, white-lipped, to Rodgers.

"How dare they drive like that!" she gasped. "They must be drunk or cra—" Her voice failed her at sight of Rodgers sitting huddled back in the car—there was something unnatural in his pose which chilled the blood in her veins. "Ted!"

Her call met with no response.

Slowly she put out her hand and touched his shoulder; then her hand crept upward to his face and forehead. What she touched felt moist and sticky. She jerked her hand downward so that the light from the dash-lamp fell upon it. It was covered with blood.

There was a sound of a thousand Niagaras roaring in her ears as she brought the roadster to a standstill and turned to Rodgers. Bending down [Pg 222]she pressed her ear over his heart—its feeble beat reassured her—he was still alive.

Kitty searched frantically for her handkerchief and for his. Tying them together she bound his wound as best she could; then with compressed lips and in breathless haste she started the car headlong for Washington. As they tore madly down the road, one question only throbbed through her aching head:

Who had shot her lover?

[Pg 223]

CHAPTER XVII
"K. B."
Inspector Mitchell looked at the policeman standing in front of his desk with approval.

"You have done well, Donovan," he exclaimed.

"Exactly at what hour was Major Leigh Wallace seen leaving ‘Rose Hill’ on Sunday afternoon?"

"Mrs. Murray claims that it was about five o’clock or a little after," Donovan replied, consulting his notes.

"And why hasn’t she reported this before?"

"She’s been ill with the grippe, and all news of the murder was kept from her," the policeman answered. "She told her boy to-day, after learning about Miss Baird’s death, to watch for me when I was on my beat. I went over to see her the moment my relief came. It wasn’t an hour ago," looking at the office clock which registered half-past nine, "Mrs. Murray said she would be glad to talk to you to-morrow, but to-night she feels too weak."

"Which is her house?"

[Pg 224]

"The one next to the Baird mansion on the east—this way—" Donovan moved his hands about to demonstrate his sense of direction. "It’s the house you have to pass to return to Washington."

"Was Major Wallace in his car on Sunday afternoon?"

"No, sir, he was walking." Donovan waited a moment before adding, "Mrs. Murray swears she knows Major Wallace well by sight; that she’s seen him too often waiting for Miss Kitty Baird to be mistaken. She was just stepping into her front walk when the Major brushed by her in such a devil of a hurry that he nearly knocked her down."

Mitchell closed the drawers of his desk, locked them, and arose. "That is all now, Donovan," he said. "Report at once if you obtain any further information. Don’t wait to come in person, telephone."

"All right, Inspector," and saluting, Donovan hurried away. The door had hardly closed after him before it opened to admit a plain clothes detective.

"Well, Welsh, what luck?" Mitchell asked eagerly.

"An old colored man did board the three o’clock train this afternoon for Front Royal, Inspector," he reported. "The gatekeeper and one of the por[Pg 225]ters declared that he answered the description you furnished."

"Was a woman with him?"

"No, sir; not that I can find out. Every one swears that the old man was alone."

Mitchell considered the answer in silence. "There is nothing for it but a trip to Front Royal," he said finally. "Go there, Welsh, and find out if Oscar Jackson arrived there to-day on the three o’clock train—no later train, mind you—from Washington. I understood Mr. Rodgers to say that Oscar is from Front Royal and has relatives living in its vicinity. Therefore he is known and I don’t anticipate that you will have difficulty in locating him. Keep me informed by telephone."

"Very good, Inspector." Welsh paused half way to the door as a thought struck him. "Did you get a message from Mr. Benjamin Potter?"

"No. What did he want?"

"He didn’t say." Welsh again started for the door. "Just asked to have you call him up. Wasn’t his wife one of the witnesses at the Baird inquest?"

"She was—" Mitchell was already reaching for the telephone directory. "As you go out, Welsh, tell Allen to bring my car around at once."

Getting the Potter apartment on the telephone was more difficult than Mitchell expected; the naturalist used a private wire and it was only by virtue of his [Pg 226]office that Mitchell was supplied with the number by "Information." Another wait ensued as Central claimed the wire "busy," and it was with perceptible irritation that the Inspector answered the hoarse, "Hello," that finally responded to his repeated calls.

"Can I speak to Mr. Potter?" he asked.

"Mr. Potter is out—" a violent cough interrupted the speaker. "Is there any message?"

"Who is speaking?"

"Mrs. Potter."

"I beg pardon, Madam." Mitchell moderated his voice. "This is Detective Headquarters—Inspector Mitchell on the ’phone. Your husband left word for me to telephone to him. Do you know what he wished?"

"No." The curtness of her tone annoyed Mitchell.

"When will your husband return?" he asked, raising his voice.

"Very soon, I imagine." There was a pause, and Mitchell concluded she was consulting her watch, for she went on, "It is nearly ten o’clock. Shall I have Mr. Potter call you?"

Mitchell considered before replying. "No. I may have to go out, so I will ring him up. Thank you, Madam; good night." He barely caught her hoarsely echoed "Good night," before hanging up the receiver.

[Pg 227]

Mitchell paused to jot down the Potters’ telephone number in his notebook, then, securing his hat and overcoat, made for the street. Only pausing to exchange a hasty greeting with a brother officer, he jumped into the police car.

"The Baird house in Georgetown, Allen," he directed, and sat in impatient silence as they whirled through the city streets. He was tired of inaction. Whatever the hour he could not rest until he had interviewed Kitty Baird. Mitchell had gained his promotion to inspector through ability, backed by dogged determination. He had early decided that the mystery of Miss Baird’s murder could best be solved through watching Kitty Baird and, as he had expressed it earlier that evening to Coroner Penfield, "wringing the truth from her."

"She benefited by her aunt’s death and, by heaven, she is the only one living who did," he had declared. "And it stands one hundred to one that if she doesn’t actually know who bumped her aunt off, she can make a mighty accurate guess."

Mitchell’s temper did not cool down on his arrival at "Rose Hill," but on the contrary gathered heat as he stood before the front door and rang the bell with increasing vigor as the minutes lengthened. The door was finally opened a tiny bit, and through the crack a pair of beady black eyes peered at him in the uncertain light.

[Pg 228]

"Who’s dar?" demanded Mandy, her trembling tones belying her belligerent attitude as she braced herself so as to shut the door in case the caller pushed against it.

"Inspector Mitchell," the latter announced briefly. "Let me in, Mandy."

Slowly the door was pulled open, but it was not until the old servant could distinguish Mitchell’s features with the aid of the hall light that she stepped aside and allowed him to enter.

"What yo’ want?" she asked.

"To see Miss Kitty Baird."

"At this time o’ night?" in scandalized surprise.

"That’s all right about the hour," with marked impatience. "Go tell her I am here."

Mandy wavered—the power of the law as represented by a policeman, not to mention an inspector, loomed large in her vision.

"Miss Kitty am out," she announced briefly.

"At this hour?" Mitchell smiled skeptically. "Go call her, Mandy."

"’Deed I’se tellin’ yo’ de truff," she protested. "She went out wif Mister Edward Rodgers early in de evenin’, an’ she ain’t come back, ’cause I’se been awaitin’ up fo’ her."

Mitchell stared at Mandy, then, putting out his hand, shut the front door.

[Pg 229]

"Go to bed," he said, not unkindly. "I’ll wait here and let Miss Baird in when she returns."

But Mandy did not budge. "Yo’ means well," she said, somewhat mollified. "But I cain’t go to bed ’till Miss Kitty gets in. If yo’ care to set awhile, come right in to de lib’ry."

Mitchell stopped her as she turned to go down the hall. "Let me stay in the parlor," he said. "I can see Miss Baird and Mr. Rodgers when they drive up. I wish to speak to Mr. Rodgers as well as Miss Baird, and he may leave without entering the house."

Mandy retraced her steps to a closed door. "De parlor’s been kep’ shut up so long I ’spects yo’ll freeze," she said. "Dar ain’t much heat comes in hyar from de furnace."

"That’s all right; I’ll keep on my overcoat." Mitchell stepped briskly into the room. "Let me light the gas, Mandy," as the old servant fumbled with the gas fixture, stiffened from lack of use. "Run along, now."

"Yes, sir," but Mandy lingered by the door. "I’ll be up in Miss Kitty’s bedroom—jes’ fetch a yell ef yo’ needs me, Mister Inspector."

As he listened to Mandy’s halting footsteps growing fainter and fainter as she climbed wearily upstairs, Mitchell contemplated the large square room filled with "period" furniture. The old brocades [Pg 230]were shabby and the rugs worn, but there was an indefinable atmosphere of the refinement of a bygone generation which time and neglect had not destroyed.

Mitchell raised the shades in the windows overlooking Q Street and peered outside. No automobile except his own, waiting at the curb, was in sight. Satisfied on that point, he opened the window ever so slightly that he might be sure and hear a car drive up to the door, and then, to occupy his time, he wandered about the room and examined the many pieces of bric-a-brac on the mantel and in cabinets.

One cabinet in particular attracted his attention. It was a fine piece of Florentine workmanship and remarkably well preserved. The floor of the cabinet held miniatures of, presumably, ancestors of Miss Susan Baird, and after a cursory glance at them, Mitchell scanned the articles on the glass shelves. A set of carved ivory chessmen awoke his admiration and observing that the key was in the door of the cabinet he opened it. After examining the little chessmen, he turned his attention to the ivory checkers and then to the two ivory cups for holding dice. The carving on them was very fine and to see them better Mitchell carried them to the gas light.

Glancing at the red dice cup, he was surprised to find cotton stuffed inside it. Setting down the other [Pg 231]cup, Mitchell pulled out the layer of cotton and found a small bottle standing upright. It was held in the center of the cup by cotton packed around it. Drawing out the bottle he held it up to the light. It was almost empty. Mitchell pulled out the glass stopper and sniffed at the contents. A distinct smell of bitter almonds caused him to draw in his breath sharply.

"Prussic acid!" he muttered. "By God! And Miss Susan Baird was poisoned with a dose of it."

There was no label on the small phial. Taking out his handkerchief Mitchell replaced the glass stopper, and wrapped his handkerchief about the phial. Putting it carefully in his pocket, he paused for a moment to take another look at the dice cups, then replaced them in the cabinet. He and two of his assistants had made a complete and searching examination of the parlor immediately after the discovery of the crime. Mitchell was willing to swear that neither cotton nor phial had been in the dice cup then. Who had hidden the incriminating evidence there? Who had had the opportunity to do so? Kitty Baird....

Mitchell frowned heavily as he ran over in his mind the list of callers at the Baird home since the tragedy became known. The house was under surveillance and he felt confident no one had evaded the watchful eyes of his operatives. He dismissed [Pg 232]the majority of callers—friends and acquaintances who had left cards and letters of condolence—and his thoughts centered on those whom old Oscar had admitted—Charles Craige, Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Potter, Edward Rodgers, and Major Leigh Wallace—but to the best of his knowledge the Major had not been inside the Baird house. He had seen Kitty and Wallace arrive that afternoon, but Wallace had departed without entering; therefore, he could not have had an opportunity to secrete the bottle of poison in the ivory dice cup.

But Mitchell’s puzzled expression did not lighten, instead it deepened. He was wrong, Wallace had been in the house after the discovery of the murder, for he had accompanied Dr. Leonard McLean to the house on Monday morning. Could the young officer have slipped unseen into the parlor and concealed the bottle of poison while he, Mitchell, and Coroner Penfield were superintending the removal of Miss Baird’s body from the library to her bedroom?

Bah! the idea was absurd. A man would not return to the scene of a murder with incriminating evidence in his pocket when he had had hours in which to throw away the poison without arousing suspicion. But supposing Wallace had, in the horror of the moment, forgotten the bottle? Mitchell shook his head in disbelief. Whoever perpetrated so cold-blooded and premeditated a crime was not [Pg 233]apt to overlook getting rid of the poison at the first opportunity.

With Wallace eliminated, Mitchell turned his thoughts to Kitty’s other callers—Ben Potter and his pretty wife, and Charles Craige, the brilliant lawyer and popular clubman. Mitchell smiled broadly—no possible motive linked them in any way, shape or manner with the crime. Edward Rodgers—Mitchell frowned as Mrs. Parsons’ confidences recurred to him. Whatever his connection with the Holt will case, nothing had occurred to associate Rodgers with the murder of Miss Baird. The fact that he was madly in love with her niece was patent to all, but it did not constitute evidence that he had a hand in murdering her aunt.

The exhaust from an automobile broke the stillness and Mitchell paused only long enough at the window to see that a car had stopped near his. The next second he was hurrying down the terraced steps, his mind made up. Kitty had quarreled with her aunt on Sunday afternoon; she had inherited her wealth, and she had had the greatest opportunity to slip the bottle of prussic acid into its hiding place unknown to any one. There were questions which Kitty alone could answer, and she must answer them immediately.

As Mitchell hurried to the side of the automobile, [Pg 234]its owner stepped on the running board and faced him.

"Mr. Potter!" exclaimed Mitchell. "Did they tell you at Headquarters that I was here?"

Potter peered at him in uncertainty for a second. "Oh, Inspector," he said. "I’m glad to see you, but I had no idea you were here. The fact is," lowering his voice as Allen, tired of waiting in Mitchell’s car, climbed out on the sidewalk and drew near the two men. "My wife called up Miss Baird and couldn’t get an answer. We both felt concerned about my cousin and I ran over to see if anything was the matter. Why are you here?"

"I wanted to talk to Miss Baird," Mitchell answered. "However, she is out—"

"Out? At this hour?"

"Yes. Mandy told me that she was motoring with Mr. Rodgers," explained Mitchell. "I decided to wait for her return, and when you drove up, I thought it was Mr. Rodgers."

Potter’s expression hardened. "I don’t approve of Kitty going out at night with Rodgers without a chaperon," he grumbled. "Nor is it proper for her to live in this lonely house with only ignorant servants." He turned back to his car and lifted out a camera and several packages. "Kitty left these at our apartment on Saturday, and Nina asked me to [Pg 235]bring them to her before the chemicals get mixed with mine."

"Chemicals," repeated Mitchell softly. "What kind of chemicals?"

"For developing negatives." Potter started for the house and Mitchell kept pace with him. "Kitty has quite a craze that way—does good work for an amateur. Some of her animal studies are excellent, especially of her cat, Mouchette."

"Seems to me there are quite a number of poisons used in developing films and negatives," Mitchell remarked thoughtfully.

"Yes, get all you want at a kodak shop. Kitty bought a new supply last Saturday," Potter replied carelessly. "Good Lord! What’s that?"

The exclamation was drawn from him by the sound of a motor horn which grew in volume as the car approached nearer and both men looked down Q Street.

"Gee! Some one’s breaking the law!" exclaimed Allen, attracted by the oncoming car whose headlights brightened the whole street.

With a grinding of brakes and totally regardless of stopping on the wrong side of the street, the driver drew up to the curb close to the three men and Mitchell recognized Kitty Baird sitting behind the steering wheel.

"Come here, quick!" she called. "Quick!"

[Pg 236]

"Kitty!" Potter sprang to her side. "What’s wrong, child? What’s happened? Don’t look so terrified."

"Ted has been shot!" Kitty was on the sidewalk and around the car with lightning speed. "Don’t stand there talking—help me carry Ted into my house and then go for a doctor."

Mitchell brushed her unceremoniously aside and looked in the car. The sight of Rodgers’ unconscious form called for action.

"Come here, Allen," he called. "Take hold—gently, man, gently."

It seemed an age to Kitty before the three men carried their burden up the long terraced steps and into the house.

"Go up to the bedroom at the head of the stairs," she directed. "Mandy," to the colored woman who, aroused by the noise of tramping feet and voices, appeared at the top of the staircase. "Show them into the spare bedroom and help them get the bed ready for Mr. Rodgers. I’ll telephone at once for Dr. McLean."

Twenty minutes later Kitty stood with clenched hands waiting for the surgeon’s verdict. She had paced the hall until physical exhaustion had called a halt.

"Will he live, doctor?" she asked. "Don’t keep [Pg 237]me in suspense." And the agony in her eyes caused McLean to hurry his usually slow speech.

"Yes, if there are no complications—"

Kitty waited to hear no more. Turning abruptly, she stumbled toward her own room—she could not face any one just then. She had reached the end of endurance.

"Miss Baird," Mitchell’s stern voice caused her to falter just outside her bedroom door. "Who shot Edward Rodgers?"

"I don’t know," she stammered. "We were coming home through Rock Creek Park and a car dashed by us. I was blinded by its headlights. I heard a report—" she caught her breath sharply. "I turned and found Mr. Rodgers sitting unconscious—wounded as you found him. I brought him home—ah, I can’t talk to you now—go—go!" And she half walked, half staggered across the threshold of her bedroom and into Mandy’s sympathetic arms.

Mitchell went slowly downstairs and out into the street. Allen, his chauffeur, was standing by Edward Rodgers’ car, and at sight of the inspector waved a beckoning hand.

"See here, Sir," he said, turning the rays of his electric torch into the body of the roadster. "See that!"

Mitchell stared at the revolver for several seconds. [Pg 238]It lay just under the gear shift. Putting on his gloves, Mitchell picked it up gingerly.

"Have you handled the revolver, Allen?" he asked.

"No, sir. After the doctor and the nurse came, I returned here and put out the headlights which Miss Baird had left burning; then I saw the revolver lying just there on the floor of the car."

A step behind him caused Mitchell to turn around.

"Hello, what have you there?" asked Ben Potter.

"A revolver." Mitchell held it so that Allen’s torch fell directly upon it. "And a revolver which has been recently discharged judging from the smell of burnt powder."

Potter whistled, then bent down for a better look. "By heaven!" he exclaimed. "That’s Kitty’s revolver. I had her initials engraved upon it—see—"

And turning the revolver slightly, Mitchell was able to decipher the letters on the plate: "K.B."

[Pg 239]

CHAPTER XVIII
ELUSIVE CLUES
Inspector Mitchell felt extremely pleased with himself as he hurried along Seventeenth Street in the direction of the Munitions Building. In his interview with Mrs. Augustus Murray of Georgetown, an hour before, he had been unable to shake her confidence in her claim that she had met Major Leigh Wallace leaving the Baird mansion on Sunday afternoon about five minutes past five o’clock. Mrs. Murray supplemented her original statement with the information that the Major never had the decency to apologize to her, when he ran against her in his blind haste.

Upon leaving Mrs. Murray, Inspector Mitchell went at once to Major Wallace’s boarding house where he learned that he had missed the young officer by ten minutes only.

"He’s gone to the Army Dispensary in the Munitions Building for treatment," Mrs. Harris, the landlady, informed him. "Dear knows, I hope the [Pg 240]treatment does him some good. The way he moans in his sleep is something awful."

"Ah, is Major Wallace troubled with insomnia?" asked Mitchell.

"I don’t know what he’s troubled with." Mrs. Harris was not blessed with an even temper, and when it was aroused generally vented her ill-humor on the first person encountered. "His room is next to mine and the partition is mighty thin. It makes my flesh crawl to hear him moan and when he cries out, ‘Kitty!’ and again, ‘That damned cat,’ I just have to pound on the wall and wake him up."

"Perhaps he has an antipathy to cats," remarked Mitchell, restraining a smile.

"Mebbe he has; anyway I can’t say that I’m sorry he’s going—"

"Going where?"

"Out west somewhere," vaguely. "If you hurry you may catch Major Wallace at the Dispensary; he’s usually there about two hours." And taking the broad hint Mitchell bowed himself out of the boarding house.

Unable to secure a taxicab at the Dupont Circle stand in place of the police car and Allen, whom he had sent on an errand earlier in the morning, Mitchell boarded a southbound street car and, standing on the forward platform, kept a sharp look-out for Major Wallace. He reached the corner of H Street, [Pg 241]however, without catching up with him, and leaving the car continued on down Seventeenth Street.

So absorbed was Inspector Mitchell in his own thoughts that he failed to return Mrs. Parsons’ bow as her motor passed him on its way up the street. At a word from Mrs. Parsons, her chauffeur swung the touring car around and up to the curb just as Mitchell started to cross D Street. The sound of his name caused him to glance around and he saw Mrs. Parsons beckoning to him.

"Can I give you a lift, Inspector?" she asked as he approached. "You appear to be in a hurry."

"Thanks." Mitchell wasted no superfluous words but seated himself with alacrity by Mrs. Parsons’ side.

"Where to, sir?" questioned the chauffeur, touching his cap as he closed the door.

"Munitions Building—that is," and Mitchell turned inquiringly toward Mrs. Parsons, "if it won’t take you out of your way?"

"Not at all," Mrs. Parsons’ smile was most engaging. "The car and I are at your service, Inspector. I have no engagements this morning." She paused to wave her hand to the occupants of a passing car, then turned once more to the silent inspector. "Has anything new developed in the Baird murder mystery?"

[Pg 242]

"Only what was in the morning newspapers," answered Mitchell guardedly.

Mrs. Parsons’ gay laugh interrupted him. "I applaud your caution," she said. "The morning newspapers contained no news whatever. Perhaps my question was overstepping etiquette, but how about the other matter about which I consulted you? I mean Edward Rodgers and his erstwhile friend, Major Leigh Wallace. What of them?"

Mitchell considered the pretty widow before replying. Her limpid brown eyes were raised to his with an appealing earnestness that was irresistible.

"I am on my way to see Major Wallace now," he said. "I had hoped to overtake him before he reached the Munitions Building."

"Not by walking, surely," she laughed. "Major Wallace is driving his car to-day and he seldom keeps within the city’s speed limit. And to-day was no exception judging from the way he passed me on the way downtown."

"Indeed?" He turned so that he could face her as they talked. "His landlady informed me that Major Wallace plans to leave shortly for the west."

Mrs. Parsons raised her eyebrows in polite surprise. "So soon," she murmured. "How odd! And—" her voice gained in sharpness, "does Edward Rodgers also plan to leave Washington?"

"I don’t know what he had planned," with quiet [Pg 243]emphasis. "But he is not going anywhere just now."

"Why not?"

"Because he was shot last night."

Mrs. Parsons’ convulsive jump almost precipitated her out of the car as the chauffeur made the turn into the street leading to the Munitions Building.

"What—what did you say?" she stammered.

"I did not mean to startle you," Mitchell spoke contritely, alarmed by her pallor. "I thought that you had heard the news."

"I have heard nothing—" she spoke rapidly, clipping her words. "There was nothing in the morning paper—"

"No, we didn’t give it out to the press."

"Then how did you expect me to know anything of the shooting?"

"I thought Miss Kitty Baird might have telephoned to you—" Mitchell was watching her closely. "She didn’t, eh?"

"No." Mrs. Parsons sat back more comfortably in her car. "Was Mr. Rodgers killed?"

Mitchell shook his head. "Seriously injured," he said soberly. "It’s a bad business."

"How did the shooting occur?" she asked. The car had stopped before the lower entrance to the Munitions Building, but Mrs. Parsons motioned to [Pg 244]her chauffeur to wait as he started to open the car door.

"Oh, some one was skylarking in Rock Creek Park and shot Mr. Rodgers as he and Miss Kitty Baird were motoring home last night," explained Mitchell. "Another case of an innocent bystander."

"It was an accident, then." Mrs. Parsons raised her scented handkerchief and touched her lips. "I thought—it just occurred to me that he might have tried suicide."

Mitchell regarded her fixedly for a second. "You haven’t a great admiration for Edward Rodgers," he remarked dryly. "No, it was not a case of suicide." He stepped to the sidewalk. "Thanks very much, Mrs. Parsons, for bringing me down. Good morning."

Mrs. Parsons controlled her impulse to stop him.

"Good morning," she answered, and her voice was honey sweet, but her chauffeur, happening to meet her glance, quailed at the flash of rage which darkened her eyes and then was gone. "‘Rose Hill,’ Perkins." The sharp command caused him to thank his stars that he had left his engine running. Mrs. Parsons’ uncertain temper had not endeared her to her servants.

The trip to Georgetown consumed less than ten minutes and Mrs. Parsons had assumed her ordinary expression of tranquil boredom when Perkins [Pg 245]returned with the message that "Miss Baird would be happy to see Mrs. Parsons."

It was the first time Mrs. Parsons had been to call upon Kitty since the murder of her aunt, and she could not repress curious glances about her as she passed Mandy and went into the familiar library. She had hardly seated herself before the sound of a light footstep on the staircase leading down from the gallery into the library caused her to look up and she saw Kitty.

"My dear child!" she exclaimed, advancing with outstretched hands which Kitty grasped while submitting gracefully to the dainty kiss which accompanied her greeting. "My heart aches for you. Your face tells me how you have suffered!" and she traced the dark circles under Kitty’s eyes with her finger-tip. "Is there nothing I can do for you?"

Kitty did not reply at once; instead she busied herself in pulling forward a chair. She was given to acting upon impulse and Mrs. Parsons’ unexpected appearance clinched a half-formed resolve made in the early hours of the morning while watching by Edward Rodgers’ bedside.

"There is something you can do," she said, and her smile was very winning. "Tell me why you wrote a note of warning to Leigh Wallace?"

The question was unexpected and Mrs. Parsons was taken off her guard.

[Pg 246]

"He showed it to you!" she gasped. "How dared he?"

Kitty watched the color come and go in Mrs. Parsons’ white cheeks with interest. It was seldom that the widow showed emotion. "I am waiting for an answer to my question," she reminded her quietly.

"Let Leigh Wallace supply the answer." Mrs. Parsons had herself in hand again. "He can—if he has not already left town."

Kitty did her best to repress a start, but the keen eyes watching her under half-closed lids detected it.

"Suppose we leave Leigh out of the question," Kitty controlled her voice admirably. "Would you rather answer me or the police?"

"The police?" Mrs. Parsons laughed tolerantly. "Dear child, the strain you have been under distorts your ideas. Why the police?"

"Because they are endeavoring to solve the mystery of my aunt’s murder." Kitty nothing daunted by the older woman’s evasions was determined to fight in the open. "I am convinced, Mrs. Parsons, that Leigh—and you—have a guilty knowledge of that crime."

Only the most astute observer could have translated the swift change in Mrs. Parsons’ expression. Even to Kitty’s prejudiced ears her low amused laugh rang true.

[Pg 247]

"You have dug up a mare’s nest," Mrs. Parsons replied. "To think that you should consider that I had a hand in poor, dear Miss Susan’s death! Why, my dear, it would be insulting if it was not ludicrous."

Kitty flushed with wrath; Mrs. Parsons’ ridicule was hard to bear. After all, was the widow right—had she dug up a mare’s nest? There was nothing but that note of warning to Leigh Wallace to connect her in the slightest degree with the tragedy.

"Will you tell me to what your note referred," she asked, "if not to my aunt’s murder?"

"You overstep my patience." Mrs. Parsons drew herself up with a displeased gesture. "I decline to be questioned further on the subject."

"Miss Baird—" the interruption came from the doorway and both Kitty and her guest whirled around to see a white-capped nurse watching them. "Mr. Rodgers keeps calling for you. Will you come, please?"

"Yes, immediately." Kitty was half way to the door when Mrs. Parsons addressed her with eagerness in her voice.

"Is Mr. Rodgers here?" she asked.

"Yes." Kitty’s impatience was marked. "We brought him here after the—the accident. Dr. McLean thought it best not to move him to a hospital. Please don’t detain me."

[Pg 248]

"But, my dear," Mrs. Parsons paused just in front of her. "Are you here alone—unchaperoned?"

"My cousin, Nina Potter, came last night to be with me—"

"Oh, I am relieved," Mrs. Parsons purred out the words. "No one can afford to defy the conventions. If your cousin was not here, I would volunteer myself—"

"Thanks—excuse me, Mrs. Parsons—" The portières opened and closed behind her vanishing figure and Mrs. Parsons found herself alone in the library.

Raising her gold lorgnette Mrs. Parsons took a prolonged survey of the throne-shaped chair standing in its customary place behind the tea table. It required but little stretch of the imagination to visualize Miss Susan Baird presiding over the tea cups, her hawklike nose and piercing eyes. In spite of the warmth of the library, Mrs. Parsons shivered and drew her costly fur coat more closely about her.

With some hesitancy she approached the tea table and scanned the antique silver tea service. She had admired it on many occasions. Taking up the teapot she reversed it and tried to decipher the hall mark; failing to do so she examined first the cream pitcher and then the sugar bowl. As she lowered the bowl, she glanced across the tea table and saw two [Pg 249]large yellow eyes regarding her from the throne-shaped chair.

Mouchette stood in the chair with her fore-paws resting on the table and her fluffy tail was lashing itself into a fury. It was the cat’s evident intention to spring upon the table and Mrs. Parsons retreated precipitously. She hated cats. As she passed the table, she dropped the sugar bowl on its polished surface. The bowl skidded, half righted itself, then fell to the floor, the heavy rug deadening the noise. With it went a small object unseen by Mrs. Parsons who, not stopping to pick up the bowl, proceeded into the hall.

Mouchette, surprised by Mrs. Parsons’ rapid retreat, stood where she was for an instant, then jumped lightly to the floor and sniffed at the sugar bowl. Going over to the small object lying by the bowl she sniffed at that, stretched out an inquisitive paw, gave it a gentle pat, watched it roll a short distance, then convinced that she had a plaything after her own heart, the cat proceeded to roll it hither and yon.

Mrs. Parsons was making straight for the front door when she caught sight of some one in the parlor, the door of which stood ajar. With a quiet air of authority she entered the room. So silently did she move that not until Nina Potter turned away from the Florentine cabinet was she aware of Mrs. [Pg 250]Parsons’ presence. The ivory chessman which she held slipped from her fingers and shattered on the hardwood floor.

"Oh, what a pity!" Mrs. Parsons’ air of concern sat prettily upon her. "My dear Nina, did I startle you? I am so distressed."

"You did," admitted Nina with a rueful smile. "The quinine I have taken for my cold has made me quite deaf. Does Kitty know that you are here?"

"I have just seen her," Mrs. Parsons selected a chair and motioned Nina to one beside it. She did not propose to have her call cut short. She had found her source of information. "Kitty had to go upstairs to be with Edward Rodgers. When did the shooting occur?"

"Late last night." Nina moved uneasily; she knew Mrs. Parsons’ predilection for scandal.

"And where—" with gentle insistence.

"In Rock Creek Park." Nina’s hoarse voice rasped Mrs. Parsons’ ears. She was sensitive to sound. "Ben was here when Kitty returned with Ted Rodgers, and he came right home and brought me back to stay with Kitty."

Mrs. Parsons eyed her in silence, noting every detail of her pretty morning dress as well as the unusual redness of her eyelids and the nervous twitching of her hands.

"How fortunate for you," she exclaimed. Nina [Pg 251]looked up and caught her eyes; for a moment their glances held, then Nina looked away.

"I don’t catch your meaning," she faltered.

"No?"—with a rising inflection which implied doubt, and Nina blushed painfully. Mrs. Parsons avoided looking at her; instead she inspected the furniture in the parlor and shuddered. "Such taste in decoration," she said calmly. "But then Kitty can change all that with the fortune Miss Susan Baird left to her. What a sensation the news of her wealth has made in Washington! Has no one asked you how Miss Baird acquired it?"

Nina’s color slowly ebbed away. The eyes she turned on Mrs. Parsons were like some hunted animal.

"You—you know?" she stammered.

Mrs. Parsons nodded her head.

"Confide in me, my dear Nina," she spoke with a world of sympathy in voice and manner. "I know that I can aid you."

[Pg 252]

CHAPTER XIX
SUSPICION
It was not often that Charles Craige was late in keeping an appointment with Mrs. Parsons. But the pretty widow had occasion to glance repeatedly at her parlor clock with ever increasing annoyance before she heard the butler ushering some one upstairs. She masked her displeasure under a smiling face.

"Ah, Charles, what has detained you?" she asked, as he bent low over her hand and kissed it.

"Pressing business," he answered. "I am deeply sorry to be late, Cecelia. Judge McMasters simply would not hurry. Has Ben Potter been here?"

"Not to-day." Mrs. Parsons’ surprise at the question was manifest. "You know he is not one of my favorites. He bored me to death in San Francisco; he is so intense—" she shrugged her shoulders. "I saw his wife this morning."

"Indeed?" Craige selected a cigarette from the box on the table and accepted a lighted match.

[Pg 253]

"Silly sentimental little fool," commented Mrs. Parsons. "Just the kind of wife Ben could have been counted on to pick out."

"Men usually marry to please themselves." Craige laughed. "Ben telephoned me an hour ago and said that he was coming around to see you—"

"What about?"

"He did not state." Craige looked at her in surprise, abruptness was not usual with her. "He may come at any moment—" glancing at his watch. It lacked five minutes of the hour. "I stopped at the bank this morning and President Walsh said he would accept your note for two thousand dollars provided you have collateral—"

"Certainly." Mrs. Parsons colored deeply. "In fact, I am not sure that I shall need the loan from the bank. I was only temporarily embarrassed until my property in San Francisco is sold. To-day," she paused, "I have arranged another matter satisfactorily. It is kind of you, Charles, very kind, to handle my business for me."

"My dearest Cecelia—" Craige laid his hand on hers. "I am happiest when I serve you."

Her eyes sparkled with a hint of tears. "I am grateful," she murmured. "You have been so good, so very good since I came to Washington."

"Cecelia!" Craige bent forward impulsively, but she drew away from his embrace.

[Pg 254]

"Not now, dear," she protested. "You know you promised—"

Craige’s handsome face, alight with eagerness, altered. "I will keep my word—" he said. "One month, Cecelia, and then the whole world is to know of my happiness—"

"Our happiness—" she corrected softly. Craige caught her hands and pressed the palms against his face before kissing them with lingering tenderness.

"A la bonne heure!" he exclaimed, and his voice betrayed his happiness. "Cecelia, you grow prettier every day."

"My mirror is not so kind as you, Charles!" A sigh accompanied the words, and she swiftly changed the subject. "Have you seen Kitty Baird to-day?"

"I am on my way there now." A worried look crossed his face. "That poor girl seems fated for tragedy. You heard of the attempt to kill Ted Rodgers last night in the Park, did you not?"

"I understood that it was an accident." Horror crept into Mrs. Parsons’ eyes. "How dreadful!"

"Kitty declares that the headlights of the car blinded her, and that she has no idea of the identity of the person who did the shooting. She says that [Pg 255]she could not even tell whether it was a man or a woman."

Craige, sitting facing the light from the western window, failed to detect the faint alteration in Mrs. Parsons’ expression.

"How is Ted Rodgers?" she asked. "Out of danger?"

"I haven’t heard; which reminds me that I am to meet Dr. McLean at ‘Rose Hill’ at three o’clock." Craige rose. "I sincerely hope that Ted recovers—it will kill Kitty if anything happens to him."

Mrs. Parsons held out her hands and Craige helped her slowly to her feet. "So Ted really has cut out Leigh Wallace in Kitty’s affections," she remarked.

Craige frowned. "It was nothing more than a flirtation between Kitty and Wallace," he declared. "Her whole heart is centered on Ted."

"You speak with positiveness—" Mrs. Parsons’ laugh held a touch of malice. "Remember, women are fickle—and Leigh very attractive."

"I fail to understand the fascination he apparently has for women." Craige’s tone was stiff. A mischievous smile touched Mrs. Parsons’ lips and her eyes danced.

"Leigh was very, very smitten with Kitty," she asserted, as she paused before the long gilt mirror and adjusted her lorgnette chain. "Do you suppose [Pg 256]it could have been Leigh who tried to kill Ted last night?"

Craige stood just behind her and looking in the mirror she saw his face reflected over her shoulder. His expression of surprise gave place to doubt—to wonder—

"By Jove!" he exclaimed. "No, it can’t be, Cecelia. Leigh, whatever his faults, is the type of man who fights in the open."

"Jealousy changes a man’s nature sometimes," she murmured. "Leigh has not been himself since his return from France."

"You knew him before, then?"

Mrs. Parsons nodded. "Very slightly. It was Nina Potter who commented upon the change in him; he was an old sweetheart of hers."

Craige paused. "Upon my word, Cecelia," he ejaculated. "How do you learn so much about people?"

She laughed aloud in her amusement. "I am observant. I find—" and the lines about her mouth hardened—"it pays to be. Will you dine with me to-morrow night, Charles?"

"Surely," with eager haste. "And will you go to the theater afterward?"

"Perhaps." She laid her hand for the fraction of a second against his cheek with a caressing motion. [Pg 257]"Careful, dear, James is waiting to open the door for you—" and Craige perforce contented himself with a formal handshake as the servant came forward to the foot of the short flight of steps with his overcoat and hat.

Craige was about to step into his motor when he became aware that the butler was at his elbow.

"Can I have a word with you, sir?" he asked, and a jerk of his thumb indicated Craige’s chauffeur. "In private, sir."

"Certainly, James." Mystified by the butler’s air of secretiveness Craige followed him a few steps down the street. When convinced that the chauffeur could not overhear them, James halted. But they were not destined to have their interview in private, for as Craige stood waiting for James to explain what he wished Inspector Mitchell stopped beside them.

"Good afternoon, Mr. Craige," he said, as he nodded a greeting to the butler. "Glad to see you, sir. Now, James, why did you send for me?"

James rubbed his hands together and cast an appealing look at Craige. "I had to," he began, addressing his remarks to him rather than to Mitchell. "My conscience couldn’t rest easy, sir, after I read the newspapers about the inquest."

"The inquest?" Mitchell’s eyes snapped with ex[Pg 258]citement. "Go on, man—you mean the Baird inquest?"

"Yes. Mr. Craige, sir, the newspapers said that Miss Baird was killed by poison put on a peach," he spoke in nervous haste and Craige had some difficulty in catching what he said. "Nobody seemed to know where the peaches came from ’cording to the papers."

"No more we did," prompted Mitchell. "Well, what then?"

James licked his lips with the tip of his tongue. "Miss Kitty Baird goes to the market sometimes for Mrs. Parsons, sir. On Saturday she brought back some California peaches," his voice sank even lower. "She called here Sunday morning, and when she left, the peaches wasn’t on the dining room table."

Craige stared the butler out of countenance. "Preposterous!" he exclaimed, turning red with indignation. "What are you suggesting, James?"

"Nothing, sir, Mr. Craige. I’m just telling you about the peaches."

Craige’s face was a study of wrath and bewilderment; the former predominating. With an effort, he checked an oath and instead drew out some loose silver.

"I am glad you spoke only to us, James," he said. "Come with me, Mitchell," and paying no attention [Pg 259]to the inspector’s protests that he wished further word with the butler, he hurried him toward his car.

So occupied were both men that neither caught James’ furtive glance at the parlor window as he turned to reenter Mrs. Parsons’ house.

[Pg 260]

CHAPTER XX
THE FEET OF THE FURTIVE
Mandy was not happy in her mind. No matter how tempting the dishes she cooked, her beloved "Miss Kitty" failed to eat more than "jes’ scraps," as Mandy expressed it in her disgust. But Kitty’s heart as well as her thoughts were centered in the sickroom and she did not linger elsewhere. Weakened through loss of blood and shock, Ted Rodgers had lain partly conscious all through the morning, taking no interest in his surroundings and only rousing when Kitty spoke to him. But even to her he addressed no conversation, being content to hold her hand and gaze at her with his heart in his eyes.

"Do go and lie down, Miss Baird." Miss Grey, the trained nurse, laid a sympathetic hand on Kitty’s shoulder. "I assure you Mr. Rodgers is better, and I promise to call you the moment Dr. McLean gets here."

[Pg 261]

Kitty stretched her cramped muscles and looked at Ted. Even to her inexperienced eyes, he appeared to be resting more comfortably and his cheeks were a healthier color. She felt inexplicably weary; her eyelids were heavy from lack of sleep and her head ached unmercifully. Taking care not to arouse Rodgers, Kitty moved away from the bedside.

"I’ll be in the room," she told Miss Gray, lowering her voice, "just across the hall, and I will leave my door open. If you want the slightest thing just call me, and I will come at once."

Kitty’s desire for "forty winks," as her aunt had always termed her afternoon nap, was not to be gratified immediately, for as she stepped into the hall, Mandy came toiling up the stairs.

"Law, ma’am, Miss Kitty!" she ejaculated. "Dis hyar day am gwine to be de ruination of me. I wish that no-count nigger, Oscar, was hyar attendin’ to his work."

"I wish so, too!" echoed Kitty fervently. "Have you had word from Oscar?"

"No, m’m." Mandy had a habit of mumbling her words. "Whar’s Mrs. Potter?"

"I’m sure I don’t know." Kitty yawned. "In the library, probably."

"No she ain’t, neither!" Mandy’s exasperation was gaining the upper hand. "Thar’s been two tele[Pg 262]phone calls fo’ her, an’ I ’spects Mister Ben’ll jump clear through his skin if she don’t come an’ talk to him."

"Is Mr. Ben on the ’phone now?"

"Yessim."

"I’ll talk to him on the branch ’phone." Kitty crossed the hall. "You might see if Mrs. Potter is lying down in the boudoir."

The telephone instrument was close by the door and Kitty, who had earlier in the day deadened the sound of the bell by stuffing cotton about it, so that its ring might not disturb Rodgers, took off the receiver. No masculine voice answered her low hail, and finally, convinced that her cousin must have grown tired and rung off, she hung up the receiver. Going over to her bed she threw herself fully dressed upon it, and in a few minutes her even breathing showed that she had fallen into the heavy slumber of utter exhaustion.

Mandy, left to her own devices, wandered down the hall to the boudoir. It was located next to the bedroom which had belonged to Miss Susan Baird. The old colored woman cautiously poked her head inside the door sufficiently for to convince herself that the boudoir was empty, then withdrew. She stood for some seconds before the closed door leading into "Miss Susan’s" bedroom, but her superstitious dread kept her from entering it. Had she [Pg 263]done so she would have found the object of her search.

Nina Potter, her ear close to the key-hole of the door, heard Mandy stump heavily away and drew a long, long breath of relief. Getting up from her knees, she looked about the room. It had been left untouched since the funeral, Mandy not having found courage either to dust or sweep, or, for the matter of that, to enter it upon any occasion whatever, in spite of Kitty’s directions to put the bedroom in order.

It was a large room with high ceilings and diamond-paned windows. The shades were raised and the afternoon sunshine fell full upon the carved four-post bedstead with its time-worn canopy and broad valance. Going over to the bureau, Nina tried the different drawers; they were all unlocked. Turning once again to convince herself that she really was alone in the room, she waited a second and then went through the bureau with neatness and dispatch. Her search was unproductive of result. Nothing daunted, she examined the old desk with equal thoroughness, and then turned her attention to the mahogany wardrobe which occupied one corner of the room. She found that it contained nothing but clothes which a generation before had been fashionable. They hung on the wooden pegs, rainbow hued, beribboned, and musty. Nina hastily [Pg 264]closed the doors and turned her back on the wardrobe.

The action brought her face to face with the bedstead. It was the only piece of furniture in the room which she had not examined. With some hesitancy she walked over to it. The sheets had been spread neatly over the mattress, but the bolster and pillows had evidently been tossed in place, for they had assumed grotesque shapes and to her excited imagination it seemed as if some human form lay sprawled across the bed.

Raising the sheets, she ran her hands back and forth over the mattress as far as she could reach. No rustle of papers, such as she had hoped to hear, resulted. Looking about, she spied the short wooden steps which Miss Susan Baird had used to mount into bed every night, and dragged them into place. Standing on the top step and resting her weight partly on the bed, Nina managed to feel the whole surface of the mattress.

Finally, she straightened her aching figure and stood upright. She was conscious of a slight feeling of giddiness; the next instant she had lost her balance and rolled to the floor. As she descended she threw out her hand and instinctively clutched the valance. It ripped away with a tearing sound, and when she sat up, bewildered, her eyes were on a level with the wooden springs of the bed. Between [Pg 265]them and the mattress rested an oblong box. It was painted the color of mahogany and fitted snugly into its cleverly contrived hiding place.

Nina’s fingers trembled as she lifted out the box and tried to raise the cover. It was locked. Scrambling to her feet, she hurried to the bureau and selected a steel shoe horn. Slipping it under the box-lid she exerted all her strength. The lock resisted her efforts at first, then the rotten wood gave with a slight splintering sound.

In panting haste she threw back the lid. The box appeared to be filled with papers of all sizes, but Nina lost no time in examining them. On top lay a package of letters bearing her name in a familiar handwriting. Snatching them up, Nina replaced the box. With the aid of pins she tacked the valance back in place as best she could, straightened the bedclothes, and then stole from the room, her precious package clasped tightly in her hand. As she passed down the staircase, she was totally unaware that she was watched, nor did she catch the faint sound made by the opening and closing of "Miss Susan’s" bedroom door.

The fire in the library had been replenished a short time before by Mandy and it blazed with unaccustomed brilliancy, and Nina in the overheated atmosphere felt a return of the giddiness which had upset her upstairs. Crossing the library, she threw [Pg 266]open the upper half of the Dutch door. The cool air refreshed her and she stood enjoying it while her gaze roved over the garden and its box hedges along the walks. The flower beds in their winter dress presented a dreary aspect. But Nina’s attention did not linger upon them; instead it centered upon a man sitting on one of the stone benches near the sun-dial. His air of dejection was marked. He turned ever so slightly and in spite of the soft hat pulled far down on his forehead and his hunched shoulders, Nina recognized Leigh Wallace. On impulse she turned the key in the lower half of the door and opening it, walked down the path. Her footfall was noiseless and it was not until she stopped directly in front of him that Wallace became aware of her approach.

"Nina!" The low cry escaped him involuntarily.

"Don’t!" Her tone stung him like a lash. "I prefer to be addressed as Mrs. Potter."

"Certainly." Wallace grew white to the lips. "I shall respect your wishes. Had I known that you were here, I would not have come."

"It is perhaps as well that you are here," Nina took a step forward. "It gives me an opportunity to return these letters."

Wallace looked at the package she held toward him and then at her.

[Pg 267]

"You kept them!" he gasped. "You had the nerve—"

Her scornful expression checked him. "Comment is unnecessary," she said. "Take the letters and destroy them."

Wallace’s uncomprehending stare frightened her. Was his old failing upon him—had he been drinking? For a long minute they regarded each other. Slowly he put out his hand, took the package, and without a glance at them or at her turned and walked away.

Inspector Mitchell left Charles Craige to enter "Rose Hill" alone.

"I’ll be in shortly," he exclaimed. "Wait until I get there." And, not waiting to hear even if Craige made an answer, the Inspector headed for the house adjoining the Baird mansion on the east. Craige paused a second to give an order to his chauffeur, then mounted the long steps to the vestibule where Mandy stood awaiting his arrival.

"I done see’d yo’ comin’," she remarked, closing the door with a bang. "Go right in de lib’ry, Mister Charles. I’ll tell Miss Kitty yo’ am hyar jes’ as soon as my gran’son gets back from the sto’." And Mandy resumed her place in the parlor window from whence she could obtain an unobstructed view up and down Q Street.

[Pg 268]

Craige’s heavy footsteps did not cause a man, standing in front of the open Dutch door in the library, to turn around, so fixed was his attention on the view into the garden. Craige paused just over the threshold of the library door.

"Why, hello, Ben!" he exclaimed. "I didn’t know you were here."

With a convulsive start, Ben Potter swung around and Craige recoiled a step or two. The rage stamped on Potter’s countenance had distorted it almost beyond recognition.

"God bless my soul!" Craige ejaculated. "Ben, what is it?"

Potter passed a hand across his face and with an effort regained some semblance of self-control.

"Nothing, nothing," he stammered. "Where’s Kitty?"

"I am sure I don’t know." Craige’s astonishment increased. "Probably upstairs."

Potter brushed past him without a word and disappeared into the hall. Craige advanced farther into the library and paused in indecision. From where he stood he faced the Dutch door, the upper half of which stood open, and thus had an uninterrupted view of the garden.

It did not need remarkably keen eyesight to recognize the man and woman standing near the sun-dial. Craige stared at the tableau for fully a minute, then [Pg 269]turned thoughtfully away just as Leigh Wallace took the package from Nina Potter.

Kitty, awakened from her sleep by Ben Potter’s unceremonious entrance into her bedroom, was gazing at her cousin in utter bewilderment.

"What are you saying?" she demanded for the second time.

"That your revolver was found by Inspector Mitchell on the floor of Ted Rodgers’ car," repeated Potter. He made no attempt to modify his angry tones and his voice carried through the open door and across the hall into Ted Rodgers’ bedroom.

"You are mad!" exclaimed Kitty. "My revolver is here in my desk." Springing up she hastened to her antique secretary and pulled open one of the drawers. It was empty.

"The revolver was here yesterday," she cried.

"And last night in Ted’s car," reiterated Potter, with stubborn temper. "Your revolver—and one chamber had been recently discharged and Ted Rodgers nearly killed."

As his words echoed across the hall Miss Gray, the trained nurse, closed the bedroom door and turned to look at her patient. With feeble strength he struggled upright.

"Bring me my clothes," Ted Rodgers gasped, as she hurried to his side.

[Pg 270]

CHAPTER XXI
MOUCHETTE, THE SEVEN-TOED
When Nina Potter reentered the library a few minutes later she found Charles Craige playing with the Angora cat, Mouchette. With a word of greeting she moved over to the fire and held out her hands before the blaze. Craige, who had risen at sight of her, observed her effort to avoid his gaze.

"I feel chilled," she confessed, and a shiver shook her from head to foot.

"You have a bad cold," Craige remarked. "Was it wise to linger in the garden—?"

Nina, intent on her own thoughts, never noticed the gravity of his manner.

"Perhaps not," she admitted absently. "I should have remembered my coat. Where is Kitty?"

"Upstairs, I imagine. Your husband went to find her."

"Ben!" Nina whirled around. "Ben—here?"

"Look out, you will scorch yourself," Craige stepped hastily toward her. "Don’t stand so near the fire."

[Pg 271]

"I am in no danger—" but Nina drew away from the fireplace with a paler face. "How long have you been in the library, Mr. Craige?"

"About ten minutes."

"Was Ben here with you?"

"I found him here when I arrived. Do sit down, Mrs. Potter, you look utterly fagged," and Craige wheeled forward a chair. As she still remained standing he started to remonstrate, but the words died on his lips as Kitty came into the room, followed by Ben Potter.

"Thank heaven you are here," she cried, running to her godfather’s side. "You will bring Ben to his senses."

Potter walked up to them, his eyes ablaze with anger. "I’ve told her a few plain truths," he stated. His truculent manner made anything but an agreeable impression on Craige, who viewed him with contempt. He had no use for bullies.

"Stop shouting, Ben," he remarked cuttingly. "You forget you are addressing your cousin and your wife."

Nina moved slightly to one side and looked at her husband. Upon his entrance she had shrunk behind Craige. The movement had been instinctive.

"Why are you so excited, dear?" she asked, timidly.

Potter avoided her gaze and addressed Craige. [Pg 272]"I’m tired of mysteries," he declared. "First, Cousin Susan is murdered, brutally murdered, poor old lady; then my friend, Ted Rodgers, is shot while driving in his own car with Kitty—and Kitty’s revolver, with one chamber discharged, is found in the car. Damn it!" His teeth clenched together. "It’s time the police took action."

"We will, never worry—" Inspector Mitchell, who had been an interested spectator of the scene from the doorway, stepped inside the library, his face set and stern. "Allow me to conduct this investigation in my own way, Mr. Potter. Stand aside, sir." He turned to address some one in the hall. "Welsh, go tell Major Wallace that he will find Miss Baird here and not in the parlor."

"Wallace!" Potter faced about. "Is he still hanging around here? Why don’t you throw him out?"

"Major Wallace has a perfect right to come here if he wishes to." Kitty spoke with warmth. "How dare you, Ben, dictate who shall call here and who shall not? This is my house."

"Is it?" Potter had lashed himself into a fury—a fury apparently intensified by the arrival of Leigh Wallace, for he turned and shook his fist at the young officer. "As your nearest of kin, Kitty, I insist that your aunt’s wishes be carried out and that you shall not receive Wallace again. She knew [Pg 273]what character of man he is—and that knowledge was the cause of her death."

Craige stepped forward. "Are you aware of what you are saying, Ben?" he asked. "That you virtually accuse Major Wallace of killing Miss Susan Baird?"

"Sure." Potter laughed recklessly. "Miss Baird had proof of his treachery—"

"Treachery? To whom?" Craige’s hand on Kitty’s shoulder warned her to be silent as he shot his questions at the distraught naturalist.

"To Kitty—playing fast and loose with her affections, and holding clandestine meetings with—" Potter licked his dry mouth, while his eyes, inflamed with hate, rested on Wallace’s white face, "with my wife."

"You lie!" The denial rang out clearly. Only Inspector Mitchell’s powerful arm prevented Wallace from springing on Potter. "You d—mn scoundrel, to blacken your wife’s name."

"Stop! Stop!" Nina Potter wrung her hands. "You are both mad!"

"This scene has gone far enough!" Craige spoke with authority. His calmness brought some comfort to Kitty—they were not all losing their heads! "Quiet, Potter. Now, Mitchell, what have you to say?"

Inspector Mitchell surveyed the small circle with [Pg 274]critical eyes. He noted Nina Potter, standing white-faced and terror-stricken, her gaze riveted on her infuriated husband. Kitty, bewilderment struggling with dawning horror as she stared at her cousin and his young wife and then at Wallace, had sunk down on the nearest chair. Wallace, his eyes downcast, stood swaying on his feet. Mitchell glanced at Craige and pointed slightly to Wallace. It was plain to both men that the young officer had been drinking.

"Suppose we sit down," Mitchell indicated the chairs about the tea table, and taking their consent for granted, deliberately seated himself. With some hesitancy, Potter followed his example and Wallace did so mechanically. Nina Potter, her feet dragging as she stumbled nearer, half fell into an armchair and Craige took the vacant one by Kitty’s side.

"Draw up," Mitchell directed. "I will lay my cards on the table—and then, Mr. Potter," as the naturalist started to speak, "we’ll hear what you have to say. Until then, keep quiet."

Mitchell spoke in a tone which commanded respect and Potter sullenly obeyed him. The silence remained unbroken for a tense moment, then the portières were drawn aside and Welsh, the plain clothes detective, stuck his head inside the library.

"Mrs. Parsons," he announced, and drew back to let her enter.

[Pg 275]

Half way across the library the pretty widow paused and inspected the company assembled around the tea table in astonishment.

"My dear Kitty," she said, dropping her lorgnette. "I stopped only for a minute," she hesitated. "I fear I am de trop," and she turned to leave.

"Not a bit of it." Mitchell spoke so quickly that Kitty, who had risen, had no opportunity to answer Mrs. Parsons. The instinct of courtesy gained ascendancy over her perturbed spirit, and she offered her chair to the pretty widow. "Join us here, Mrs. Parsons," added Mitchell. "We want your advice."

Mrs. Parsons’ smile was charming, but her eyes were keenly alert as she moved forward, searching each face for a clue to the scene which she felt she had interrupted. Not observing where she was going, she stepped on something soft. A loud wail from Mouchette caused her to start convulsively, and the Angora cat, switching her injured tail, back and forth, sprang on Kitty’s vacant chair and from there to the tea table.

"That cat is always under my feet, horrid beast!" Mrs. Parsons, conscious of appearing ridiculous, for Wallace had not restrained a chuckle, spoke with irritation.

"Let me help you," and Craige, who with the other men had risen on the widow’s entrance, assisted her in removing her wrap.

[Pg 276]

Mrs. Parsons presented an alluring picture in her chic crepe de Chine calling costume, its soft folds showing her graceful figure to advantage. Mrs. Parsons, with reason, was vain of her neck and arms and generally wore elbow sleeves and square cut neck. She was making a round of visits, and as she removed her long white gloves, she laid her gold card case and mesh bag before her on the tea table.

Mouchette eyed them for a second and then put out an inquisitive paw. Mrs. Parsons promptly drew both bag and card case out of the cat’s reach. Craige, who missed nothing the widow either said or did, lifted Mouchette off the table and held her on his knee. He was aware of Mrs. Parsons’ fear of cats. Mouchette submitted to his petting with good grace and much purring, and finally curled up in his lap, but her yellow eyes never ceased watching Mrs. Parsons.

"Is this a seance?" asked Mrs. Parsons as the silence continued. "If not," her eyebrows lifted, "why are we sitting around this table?"

"We are waiting for Inspector Mitchell to, as he expressed it, ‘lay his cards on the table,’" Potter spoke with a sneer. "In other words, Cecelia, you are in at the death."

Mrs. Parsons’ slight start was lost on all but Craige.

"Drop the melodrama, Ben," he said. "We pre[Pg 277]fer to listen to Inspector Mitchell and not to you. Go on, Inspector."

But the Inspector was doomed to another interruption, for as he hitched his chair closer to Nina Potter, the sound of footsteps in the gallery circling the library drew all eyes upward. With the aid of his nurse, Ted Rodgers was making his way down the gallery steps with faltering speed.

"Don’t any one rise," he begged, as they started to their feet. Kitty was the first to reach his side.

"Ted, is this wise, dear?" she asked, making no attempt to conceal her anxiety. "How could you let him get up, Miss Gray?"

"She couldn’t help herself." Rodgers gently but firmly disengaged his hand from Kitty’s tender clasp. "Go and sit down, dear; I’ll take this chair."

Miss Gray aided him in pulling out the throne-shaped chair. By tacit consent the others had avoided sitting in it. As Rodgers sank back, the bandage on his head showed up plainly. Leigh Wallace transferred his gaze elsewhere. Vividly before him had loomed the memory of Miss Susan lying dead in her throne-shaped chair on Monday morning. Rodgers’ complexion matched the dead woman’s in pallor. His exertions had made him deadly faint and it was some seconds before he could gather his strength to speak with clearness.

"Don’t wait, Miss Gray," he said courteously. [Pg 278]"They will call you if I need your aid. Thank you." Then as the nurse withdrew, he turned to Inspector Mitchell. "Well, what news?"

"Miss Baird," Mitchell cleared his throat and pointed to a typewritten manuscript which he had lain before him on the table just as Rodgers joined them. "You quarreled with your aunt on Sunday—"

"We had an argument, I admit—" Kitty rubbed one nervous hand over the other—they were both cold.

"It was more than an argument—it was a quarrel, and about Major Leigh Wallace," Mitchell’s manner was dictatorial. "Don’t contradict me, madam, I know."

"Well, what else do you know?" demanded Craige, losing patience. "What’s that document you have there, Mitchell?"

"All in good time, sir." Mitchell’s smile was tantalizing. "You went out of here, Miss Baird, in a rage, because your aunt had ordered you not to return. Can you deny it?"

"N—no."

"Stop a moment," Craige held up his hand. "You are not obliged to answer these questions, Kitty, except in a law court. Don’t overstep your authority, Mitchell."

Mitchell’s only answer was to shrug his heavy [Pg 279]shoulders, and look across the table at Kitty. "Miss Baird," he began. "You purchased some peaches for Mrs. Parsons on Saturday—"

She looked at him dumbly. Then at Mrs. Parsons, who gazed back at her in silent astonishment. "I bought some fruit for her on Saturday," she admitted. "But if there were any peaches in the basket, they were there unknown to me."

Mitchell smiled significantly. "Pretty thin," he commented, and glanced over at Craige, before again addressing her. "You stopped to see Mrs. Parsons on Sunday morning, Miss Baird—and you brought those peaches home to your aunt."

"I did not!" Kitty’s voice rang out clearly. "I was at Mrs. Parsons’ for a few minutes on Sunday on my way from church—"

"With Major Wallace?"

Kitty changed color. "Yes."

"And Major Wallace went into the house with you?"

Kitty paused in uncertainty and her eyes sought Wallace. He sat lolling back in his chair, his air of indifference plainly assumed as his restless fingers played with the catch of Mrs. Parsons’ gold mesh bag.

"I went upstairs to see Mrs. Parsons," she explained. "I left Major Wallace standing in the vestibule—"

[Pg 280]

"And the front door open—" Mitchell broke in rudely. He turned to Mrs. Parsons. "Your house is an English basement, with the drawing room on the second floor. Where is your dining room?"

"On the first floor." Mrs. Parsons had been following the dialogue with unwavering attention. At her answer Mitchell nodded his head with an air of triumph.

"I’ll amend my statement, Miss Baird," he said. "You did not carry those peaches home to your aunt, but Major Wallace did—when he called here to see her alone on Sunday afternoon."

Wallace’s air of indifference dropped from him and he swung to his feet, his hands clenched. "You’re a damned liar!" he shouted.

"Shouting won’t help matters," Mitchell remarked. "For I have the goods on you." He tapped the papers in front of him. "Here is the sworn testimony of Mrs. Murray, who saw you enter this house on Sunday afternoon with a paper package under your arm, and when you left you carried no package and were so agitated that you weren’t even conscious of bumping into Mrs. Murray as you hurried down the street toward Washington."

Wallace stared at the Inspector and then at the others, but always his eyes passed over Nina Potter, sitting huddled in her chair, her eyes upraised in mute pleading.

[Pg 281]

"Well," his voice was hoarse—discordant. "What if I did bring some peaches to Miss Susan as a ‘peace offering?’" His lips twitched into a ghastly smile. "It doesn’t follow that I murdered her."

"No—?" Mitchell’s tone expressed incredulity. "That’s for the jury to decide." He looked across at Kitty. "You I charge with being an accessory to the crime."

Charles Craige was the first to speak. "You bring a serious charge against my godchild," he said sternly. "I demand your proof."

Mitchell turned slightly to address the man on his left. "How about it, Mr. Potter?" he asked.

Potter seemed to have some difficulty in speaking, for a moment elapsed before he answered.

"Kitty spent Sunday night with us," he began. "I came home late, having been detained at my club, and was surprised to see Kitty walk out of my apartment house and jump into Major Wallace’s car—"

He got no further. Kitty was on her feet, her face scarlet.

"You saw me?" she cried. "Me!"

"Yes," meeting her gaze unwaveringly. "I recognized your red coat." He paused, then added slowly, "I followed you to Georgetown and saw you enter this house—"

Kitty dropped back in her chair as if shot. Her [Pg 282]eyes wandered from Nina Potter, sitting with head averted, to Wallace, who stared straight in front of him, and then to Ted Rodgers, who sat with closed eyes, his head resting against the high back of the throne-shaped chair. No one broke the tense silence and after a brief pause Mitchell spoke.

"You got your aunt’s fortune, Miss Baird—and then you got cold feet—" he paused dramatically. "There was one man who suspected you, and so you tried to do away with him. I found your revolver, with one chamber discharged in the bottom of Mr. Rodgers’ car—"

"So I have heard," Kitty’s fighting spirit was coming to her aid. It had conquered her feeling of deadly faintness, and she faced them, white-lipped but with blazing eyes. "And who was with you, Inspector, when you made that discovery?"

"My chauffeur and Mr. Potter."

"Is that so?" Kitty’s smile was peculiar as she glanced at her cousin. "Has it occurred to you that it may be manufactured evidence?"

Mitchell looked at her in astonishment. "Are you accusing your cousin of lying?"

"He is accusing me of a far more despicable crime," she retorted. "Of wilfully aiding in the murder of my aunt, of trying to kill the man whom, last night, I promised to marry—" she faced them proudly, her heart beating with suffocating rapidity. [Pg 283]Why, why had not Ted Rodgers spoken in her defense? "Mr. Rodgers," she went on, after an almost imperceptible pause, "was shot by a person riding in a car which passed us when we were driving in Rock Creek Park last night. When I left this house with Mr. Rodgers, my revolver was upstairs in the drawer of my desk—" Again she paused, finding speech difficult—her throat felt parched and dry. "Upon my return I found not only you waiting for me, Inspector Mitchell, but Mr. Potter. My cousin knew where I kept my revolver; it was no secret. He could easily have slipped upstairs during the confusion of getting Mr. Rodgers to bed and sending for a nurse and doctor, secured my revolver and, unknown to you, dropped it in Mr. Rodgers’ car—for the purpose of incriminating me."

"And Mr. Potter’s object in doing that?" questioned Mitchell, as she came to a breathless pause.

"Ask him—" and Kitty pointed to her cousin, who had half risen, then dropped back in his chair. Mitchell stared at them both for a second, then faced the throne-shaped chair.

"Can you tell us who shot you, Mr. Rodgers?" he

Rodgers opened his eyes and faced their concentrated attention.

"Miss Baird," he commenced, and Kitty almost cried out at the formality of his address, "has told [Pg 284]you how the revolver might have been ‘planted’ in my car to incriminate her. To be exact it was thrown into the car by the person who shot me, and with it a handkerchief." He fumbled in his pocket and pulled out a piece of linen, bloodstained and torn. "You bound my head, did you not, before you started to drive me home?" turning to Kitty.

"Yes."

"My nurse—" Rodgers was speaking more clearly, "showed me the handkerchiefs which Dr. McLean had removed to put on a proper bandage," touching his head. "Look at that handkerchief, Mitchell—and tell us what you see."

Mitchell spread out the costly linen so that all could view it.

"A woman’s handkerchief," he remarked. "There’s an initial in the corner—the letter—" holding it closer—"the letter ‘P.’" In the utter stillness that followed he laid down the handkerchief. "‘P,’" he repeated musingly—"Potter."

A cry escaped Nina Potter and she shrank back in her chair, her face buried in her hands, shaking from head to foot. "Not that," she gasped. "Not that!"

Ted Rodgers bent forward. "‘P’ stands as well for ‘Parsons,’" he commented, and got no further.

"Yo’se done said it!" gasped a voice behind them, and Oscar, perspiration trickling down his black [Pg 285]face, came forward, his arm tightly clutched by Welsh, the plain clothes’ detective. "Dar’s de woman who done up ole Miss," shaking his fist in Mrs. Parsons’ face. "I see’d her acreepin’ away from here on Monday mawnin,’ an’—"

"You—you—Oscar!" Mrs. Parsons’ voice rose and cracked. Again she tried to speak in her natural tones—"Oscar!"

Kitty cried out—a chord of memory had been touched—

"It was you I heard trying to bribe Oscar!" she exclaimed. "You!"

Mrs. Parsons turned with livid face to Charles Craige.

"Charles—they—she—stop her!" She reeled backward and Craige, awakening from his stupor, flung Mouchette toward Kitty and reached forward to catch Mrs. Parsons as she swayed dangerously near the edge of her chair.

The Angora cat, roused suddenly from her sleep, missed Kitty by the fraction of an inch and alighted in Mrs. Parsons’ lap. As the terrified woman attempted to throw her down, the cat sank her claws into her bare arm, tearing the delicate flesh with gash after gash.

The men sprang to Mrs. Parsons’ aid, but too late. Her screams gave place to a gurgling cry and she sank back a dead weight. Mitchell, kneeling by [Pg 286]her side, stared at her convulsed features in horror as his hand went to her wrist.

"By God! She’s dead!" he gasped in awe. His glance traveled downward. "Look—look at the cat!" His shaking finger pointed to where Mouchette sat licking first one paw and then the other. A streak of blood was flowing from where she had gashed herself in her fury. Suddenly they saw the cat stiffen, throw back her head convulsively, roll over and lie still.

A clicking sound caused Inspector Mitchell to whirl around in time to see a pair of handcuffs dangling from Charles Craige’s wrists.

"What—what?" he gasped.

"Charles Craige—murderer of Miss Susan Baird," explained Rodgers. "Don’t move," and a revolver rested dangerously near Craige’s heart. "Open your hand." The command was accompanied by a threatening movement of the revolver.

Slowly, very slowly Craige did as he was told. A small rubber bulb syringe dropped to the floor.

"Don’t touch it," Rodgers cried sharply, as Mitchell bent down. "It is filled with the poison which Craige sprayed on the cat’s paw—and thus killed Cecelia Parsons, his fiancee."

[Pg 287]

CHAPTER XXII
GREED
Charles Craige sat staring into vacancy, while beads of perspiration trickled down his ghastly face. Several drops slipped into his eyes and half blinded him. Raising his hands he brushed them away. The action brought the handcuffs encircling his wrists into view. He regarded them apathetically, then his uncomprehending gaze traveled over the horror-stricken men and women grouped about his chair. It was not until he saw Kitty Baird that the situation dawned upon him. Before the others suspected his intention, he sprang at her, his manacled hands upraised to strike. The blow was turned aside by Inspector Mitchell, who darted to Kitty’s assistance.

"Hold him down in that chair, Welsh," he directed as the detective came to his aid. Rodgers, whose false strength had departed, dropped into the nearest chair, the revolver hanging useless in his grasp. His shot, as Craige sprang forward, had gone wild. Kitty was by his side in an instant.

[Pg 288]

"I’m all right," he panted, as she bent over him. "Don’t worry, my darling. Now, Craige, what have you to say?"

"Say?" Craige was winded from his exertions and spoke with difficulty. "Why should I say anything?"

"Because the game’s up," Mitchell stated, and stepped aside so that Craige had a clear view of Cecelia Parsons. "Why did you kill that woman?"

"I did not mean to kill Cecelia," Craige shouted. "God knows I did not." His bloodshot eyes again sought Kitty. "I threw the cat at you. Cecelia called to me to stop you—"

"Ah, so Mrs. Parsons aided you in your murder of Miss Susan Baird," broke in Mitchell.

"She did not." Craige, his tongue unloosened, spoke in desperate haste, his words tripping over one another. It seemed almost as if he gained courage from the sound of his own voice. "Miss Susan Baird was warned—but she would not listen to me."

"Why did you kill my aunt?" demanded Kitty, indignation for the moment mastering her horror. "She was always kind to you. She trusted you."

"Trust? It was greed which prompted her friendship." Craige laughed harshly, jeeringly. "It was by my aid that she made her fortune. Do you know [Pg 289]what she was—your aristocratic aunt—a money-lender!"

Kitty stared at him—appalled. "It can’t be," she cried, and turned appealingly to Ted Rodgers. "Make him tell the truth."

"I am speaking the truth," Craige retorted. "Many’s the person I’ve brought over here when you, Kitty, were not around, and your aunt has admitted us at that side door. She charged high rates of interest, but no one gave her away. She was square with them."

"Were you square with her?" asked Rodgers quietly, and a dull red suffused Craige’s white face.

"When I had to borrow, she treated me like the others," he answered. "The fact that I helped her amass a fortune cut no ice. I got deeper and deeper in debt, and then—" his voice changed. "I had to have money, so I told her I wanted to marry you."

Kitty retreated, aghast. "Marry me? You!"

"Yes," coolly. "I am only fifty-four; there is not such a difference in our ages. I saw your aunt on Sunday about six o’clock. She laughed at me and refused to consent to our marriage." Beads of perspiration had again gathered on his forehead, but he went steadily on with his story, oblivious apparently of the abhorrence with which his companions were regarding him. "I had forged Miss Susan Baird’s name in my desperation last week. I knew that if [Pg 290]Kitty and I were married quickly, she would keep quiet about the forgery for her family’s sake. When she laughed my plan to scorn, I realized there was only one thing to do—to kill her."

"How did you go about it?" asked Mitchell.

It was some seconds before Craige answered. "I went prepared for failure," he admitted. "I could not face ruin—perhaps the penitentiary for forgery. My father was a famous expert in toxicology and," he moistened his lips—"I often worked in his laboratory," with a side glance at the bulb syringe still lying where it had fallen on the floor. "I at first planned to squeeze some poison in her tea cup, but got no chance. Then Miss Baird asked me to peel a peach for her. I don’t know where the peaches came from, but there were three in a dish on the table. Before cutting the peach in two, I sprayed some hydrocyanic acid on the knife-blade when Miss Baird was not looking, holding the knife just over the edge of the table and the bulb in my left hand, out of sight in my lap."

"It was devilishly ingenious," commented Mitchell. "Well, did you steal the forged paper after killing the old lady?"

"No." Craige looked at Kitty with a faint sneer. "It was among those canceled checks from the bank which you so obligingly left in your desk yesterday [Pg 291]alongside your revolver. I stole them both last night."

"Last night?" Kitty looked at him in astonishment. "Why, we found you at home last night, Ted and I. We telephoned you first that we were coming and—"

"I answered the ’phone; quite so." Craige’s smile was peculiar. "My butler, Lambert, is well trained and," with emphasis, "well paid. He is quick at recognizing the voices of my intimate friends. I happened to be in Washington in my, eh, town apartment," with a sidelong look at Kitty. "From there I have a direct wire to my switchboard in my house, and Lambert plugged in your call. You thought you were talking to me at ‘Hideaway,’ Rodgers, whereas I wasn’t six blocks away from here.

"I told Lambert to take care of you until I got home, then hurried over here. I have a key to the side door. It took but an instant to slip upstairs to your room and to go through your desk. Mandy never woke up, but that infernal cat," with a vindictive snarl. "I wish I had strangled her. When I got back to ‘Hideaway,’ I found you and Kitty so engaged with each other that I knew you never realized the time I took to appear."

"So that was it!" Rodgers drew a long breath. "And you followed us and tried to shoot me in the Park!"

[Pg 292]

"Yes." Craige favored him with a scowl. "I got word yesterday that you were wise to the kind of life I was leading—you knew too much. I detected you watching me last night. If Kitty had not swerved her car when she did, I’d have potted you, for I’m a crack shot as a general thing."

"And did you throw the revolver into the car as you dashed by?" asked Kitty.

"Yes. I had tied a handkerchief loosely about the butt of the revolver so as not to leave finger prints," Craige added. "It was clever of you, Rodgers, to trace the handkerchief as you did. In my haste that night, I never noticed that I had one of Cecelia’s handkerchiefs in my pocket and none of my own." He paused, his voice had grown husky. "Well, that clears up the mystery."

"All but Mrs. Parsons’ part in it," broke in Rodgers. "Where did she come in, Craige?"

Craige’s color mounted, then receded, leaving him deadly white.

"She cut a big splurge here," he began, "and soon went through her money. She found out about Miss Baird and came here early Monday morning, knowing that Kitty was spending the night with her cousins, hoping to borrow from Susan. She found the front door open, so she told me, and walked in. When she discovered Miss Baird lying dead in the library, she bolted home and called up the police."

[Pg 293]

"And why did she try to bribe Oscar?" demanded Kitty.

"She wanted some papers to prove that your aunt was a money-lender," Craige twisted about, his growing uneasiness plainly indicated by his avoidance of their gaze.

"In other words," cut in Mitchell. "Mrs. Parsons hoped to blackmail Miss Kitty Baird by threatening to expose her aunt’s career."

Craige nodded sullenly. "Something like that," he admitted.

Rodgers had not taken his eyes from him. "Did Mrs. Parsons know that you wished to marry Kitty?" he asked.

Craige shifted his feet about. "No," he muttered.

"Did she know that you killed Miss Susan Baird?" Rodgers was persistent in his questioning.

"I’m not sure," Craige glanced up at him quickly, then dropped his eyes. The sight of his handcuffs sent a shiver down his spine and he again shifted his gaze.

"Mrs. Parsons done picked up dat ar’ rubber ball befo’ she left on Monday mawnin’," volunteered Oscar. The old man had been a fascinated witness of all that transpired; his face, gray from fright at the death of Cecelia Parsons, had regained its nor[Pg 294]mal hue somewhat, but his eyes still bulged from his head.

"She did!" A startled look crept into Craige’s ever shifting eyes. "Why, I found the cat playing with the syringe when I first entered this room. I knew that I had dropped it on Sunday, probably when I reentered the library after Susan Baird screamed." A shudder shook him, in spite of his iron self-control. "Seeing it here this afternoon, I supposed it had rolled in some corner, and been overlooked. I judged that the cat had selected it as a plaything."

"It’s a wonder the cat didn’t poison herself," commented Mitchell.

Craige’s face was distorted into what he meant for a smile. "There wasn’t a drop of poison left in the syringe," he said. "I considered finding it a direct act of Providence, for I expected trouble of some kind, and brought with me a small phial of a concentrated solution of crotalidae—"

"What’s that?" asked Mitchell.

"Snake venom, and deadly when introduced into the blood," explained Craige. "It’s sometimes used in drugs given by homeopathists. During the few minutes I was alone in the library I put the poison in the syringe."

"But if Mrs. Parsons carried away the syringe on [Pg 295]Monday morning, how did it get back in this library to-day?" asked Kitty.

"She probably guessed that it was used to kill Miss Susan Baird in some way, and brought it back to incriminate Miss Kitty Baird," declared Mitchell. "Mrs. Parsons was as clever as they make them, but she overreached herself when she tried to involve you, Mr. Rodgers. I kept the wires to San Francisco hot until I found out that the papers she produced to prove that you were involved in the Holt will forgery were ones found in Gentleman Jake’s house, when he and his confederates were trying to forge Holt’s will." He turned to Craige. "Did you put Mrs. Parsons up to that deviltry, Mr. Craige?"

Craige ignored the question and Potter broke his long silence.

"I imagine he did," he said. "Mrs. Parsons was the divorced wife of Gentleman Jake, and later she married Amos Parsons. He left some property and she came east. She’d have lived straight, Craige, if it hadn’t been for you."

"Craige," Mitchell’s harsh voice made the lawyer turn with a nervous jump. "Did you conceal that small bottle of prussic acid in the ivory dice cup?"

"Yes," sullenly, then with a venomous glance at Kitty. "I hoped to involve you."

[Pg 296]

"You yellow devil!" Ted Rodgers rose and stepped toward him, but Mitchell intervened.

"The law will deal with him, Mr. Rodgers; stand back, Sir. Now, Craige, come on—" and, at a sign, Welsh, the detective, took his place by the lawyer.

Twice Craige tried to get upon his feet, only to sway back into his seat. He had aged in the past hour, and when he finally stood upright his shoulders sagged forward and his trembling knees seemed unable to support him.

"Catch him on the other side, Welsh," Mitchell directed. "Mr. Potter, please telephone to Coroner Penfield." With a jerk of his head he indicated the prone figure behind them. "Mrs. Parsons cannot be moved until he gets here. Come, Craige."

Craige moved forward a few hesitating steps and then halted. An irresistible attraction which he could not conquer drew his eyes toward Cecelia Parsons. Whatever emotion he felt he controlled admirably. He stood for a moment motionless, then, without glancing to right or left, he squared his shoulders and swinging around strode arrogantly from the library, the two men on either side walking rapidly to keep up with him.

The silence in the library grew oppressive and Kitty was conscious of a feeling almost of nausea when Nina Potter came toward her.

"Kitty," she said brokenly. "I did you a very [Pg 297]great wrong when I wore your red coat to come here on Sunday night with Leigh."

"Did you not do your husband a greater wrong?" Kitty asked swiftly.

"No." Nina flushed scarlet. "I am a coward, but I am a loyal wife."

"I am entirely to blame," Leigh Wallace turned and addressed Potter directly. "I was once engaged to your wife. We quarreled and she broke it off. I never saw or heard from her again until we met this winter. Nina would not let me pay her any attention, so, forgive me, Kitty, I went with you because I could be with Nina without arousing talk," he hesitated.

No one spoke, and, after an instant’s pause, Wallace continued:

"On Saturday night Oscar brought me a note from Miss Susan Baird asking me to come here on Sunday at five o’clock. I did take the peaches from Mrs. Parsons’ table on a silly impulse, for I knew Miss Baird was fond of them and thought that I could placate her with a gift.

"When I got here she told me how my father had jilted her and of her hatred of me. She declared that she had secured, through bribing one of Nina’s servants, some old love letters of mine—they were undated, and she proposed showing them to Ben Potter. I tried in every way to induce her to return [Pg 298]them to me, even offering a large sum of money. She ordered me out of the house," he paused. "Then I went to Nina and asked her to see Miss Baird and try to get her to give up the letters."

"So I came over here with Leigh on Sunday night," Nina Potter took up the story. "Miss Susan had loaned me your red coat, Kitty, last Wednesday to wear home when it blew up so cold. The coat is distinctive in appearance, and—well—" she faltered—"I knew if any one saw me, there was a chance I might be mistaken for you. Afterwards I got rid of the coat by selling it to a second-hand dealer." She caught her husband’s averted gaze and colored painfully.

"Leigh left me at the side door of ‘Rose Hill,’" she added. "I entered the library—saw Miss Susan sitting there—dead—" she covered her eyes with her hand as if to shut out some terrifying vision and a shudder shook her. "I must have fainted, for it was late when I stole out of the house. I left by the front door, and in my terror I put the big key in the lock on the outside with some idea of locking poor Miss Susan in the house. I heard an automobile coming and ran away, forgetting to turn the key in the lock after all. When I got home I found Ben had not gotten in and that you were still asleep, Kitty—so—" she faltered again and glanced appealingly at her husband.

[Pg 299]

Potter stirred uneasily. "I drove around a bit," he said. "Kitty, as I thought, coming over here at that time of night with Wallace troubled me, and I wanted time to think things over. When I heard of Cousin Susan’s murder—well, I—well, I kept silent until my jealousy of Wallace drove me to try and implicate Kitty and him in the crime.

"I saw you, Ted," he turned to Rodgers, "come out of a second-hand clothing store on Pennsylvania Avenue with Kitty’s coat on your arm. The dealer told me that you had just paid twenty dollars for it. I decided that if the coat was worth that to you, it might be worth double the money to me: so I bribed the dealer to buy the coat back from you. When that scheme failed, I went to your apartment—"

"Where you failed again," broke in Rodgers. "Your coat was accidentally burned up, Kitty, all except one pocket. In that pocket I found the clue which gave the first inkling that Charles Craige might have murdered your aunt—"

"What was it?" demanded Kitty breathlessly.

"An ‘I.O.U.,’ which your aunt must have slipped inside the coat pocket and forgotten. The signature was obliterated, but I recognized Craige’s handwriting," Rodgers explained. "It showed me that Craige was under heavy financial obligations to Miss Susan Baird while all the time he protested absolute ignor[Pg 300]ance of her wealth. I immediately started to investigate Craige’s career, and it was that investigation, as he said a few minutes ago, which forced his hand last night—"

"And he nearly killed you!" Kitty’s eyes were shining as she faced her lover. "You endangered your life for me—"

Regardless of the others’ presence Rodgers drew her to his side.

"Sweetheart," he murmured. "Sweetheart—"

"Ahem!" Ben Potter cleared his throat, and faced the others.

"Did you get your letters, Nina?" he asked, turning to his wife.

"Not then, only this afternoon," she explained. "I found them in a box under the mattress of Miss Susan’s bed. Mrs. Parsons suspected that I was searching for something, for yesterday she told me that for a considerable sum of money she would aid me."

"That woman was a fiend incarnate!" ejaculated Rodgers.

"She sho’ly was, Sah," agreed Oscar. "She done her bes’ to make me tell de police that ole Miss let people have money. Yo’ see, Miss Kitty, ole Miss had me to help her, an’ I promised never to tell, an’ I never broke my promise, never."

[Pg 301]

"Oscar!" Kitty’s eyes were dim with tears as she laid her hand on the faithful servant’s shoulder. "Where did you disappear yesterday?"

"Jes’ went down to my rooms an’ laid low," promptly. "Mandy an’ me thought things were gettin’ kinda critical ’round hyar. Las’ night I heered yo’ an’ Mister Rodgers a-plannin’ to see Mister Craige, an’ then I went home again, scared stiff."

"Wait, Oscar—" Rodgers interrupted him quickly. "Why did you ask me to find Miss Kitty’s red coat?"

"I seen some one a-wearin’ dat coat enter dis house as I was passin’ along de street late Sunday night," the negro explained. "I couldn’t swear it warn’t yo’, Miss Kitty, an’ I couldn’t swear it were; but I calculated dat whoever ’twas might a lef’ somethin’ in de coat pockets to tell on them."

"It was a clever thought," exclaimed Rodgers. "But it would have been better had you taken me entirely into your confidence, Oscar."

"Yessir." But Oscar looked doubtful. "I was mighty concarned ’bout Miss Kitty, ’deed I was, Sah. It warn’t ’till jes’ a spell back that that detecertif man, Mister Welsh, who tried to find me in Front Royal an’ at las’ found me to home, ’splained to me I had orter be hyar wif yo’, Honey, Miss Kitty, so then I comed round wif him."

[Pg 302]

Leigh Wallace heard the old man to the end, then stared moodily across the library. He started for the doorway and turned around.

"I’ve destroyed your letters, Nina," he said. "I, forgive me, I feared that you had killed Miss Susan Baird on Sunday night. That was why I was so overcome when the crime was discovered. Mr. Potter," he spoke with deep feeling. "Your wife loves you devotedly. I am but a forgotten incident in her life. I received my orders for foreign service to-day. Good-by." He clicked his heels together and with a bow which included all in the library, turned and strode from the room.

At sound of the front door closing, Potter stepped forward. He was oblivious of any one’s presence but his wife.

"Nina, can you forgive me?" he asked humbly. "I have acted the part of a jealous fool."

Nina’s answer was not in words. With a face in which joy obliterated the shadow of the past few days, she slipped her arm within his and he led her from the room.

"Doan yo’ wait hyar, Miss Kitty—" Oscar came forward a pace. "Jes’ you an’ Mister Rodgers go right along. I’ll stay wid dis—" and he nodded significantly at Rodgers. The latter turned to take a last survey of the library. Not far from Cecelia [Pg 303]Parsons lay a small furry body—both were rigid in death.

"Come, sweetheart—" Rodgers slipped his arm around Kitty and they walked toward the drawing room. Once there Kitty gave way to the grief consuming her.

"Poor Aunt Susan—how could Charles Craige have had the heart to kill her!" she exclaimed. "He was her trusted friend."

"He was a man of masks," Rodgers said gravely. "A man of character, well educated, a social favorite and a brilliant lawyer, but heredity proved too strong for him." And as Kitty looked at him in question, he added, "Were you not aware that his father died insane?"

Kitty shook her head. "I never knew it," she said. "How dreadful! The whole affair—Aunt Susan’s death—her life, oh, Ted, her life!"

"Hush!" Rodgers laid his finger gently on her lips. "Let us forget the tragedy in our happiness."

Glancing shyly upward, Kitty read the worship in his eyes and her rapidly beating heart sang a glad response.

"All my life I have prayed for love," she murmured as he took her in his arms; "even when I was only a little lonely child—and now to feel such hap[Pg 304]piness as I never even imagined. To have you with me always—"

"In our Kingdom of Love"—Rodgers’ tender, caressing voice was melody in her ears—"My queen—my queen!"

HE swish of starched skirts caused the man in the bed to roll slowly over, and for the first time patient and nurse regarded each other. The silence grew protracted.

"Well?" The man’s tone was husky and the short interrogation was almost lost among the pillows. He made a second attempt, and this time his voice carried across the room. "What—what do you want?"

The nurse’s eyes, pupils dilated, shifted from his white face to the glass in her outstretched hand, and the familiar sight of the medicine and her starched uniform drove away her temporary loss of composure.

"Here is your medicine," she announced, and at the sound of her low, trainante voice the patient clutched the bedclothes spasmodically.[2] He made no effort to take the glass.

"Put it on the table," he directed and, reading correctly the look that crept into her eyes, his voice rose again harshly. "Put it down, I say—"

A rap at the closed hall door partly drowned his words, and without replying Nurse Deane placed the glass on the table by the bed, and a second later was looking out into the hall. She drew back at sight of a tall man standing somewhat away from the entrance to the room, then thinking better of her hesitancy she stepped into the hall and drew the door shut behind her.

"What is it, Mr. Wyndham?" she inquired.

"I came up to ask if there is anything I can do for you?" Hugh Wyndham moved over to her side, and Nurse Deane’s preoccupation prevented her becoming conscious of his scrutiny. "I think Noyes exceeded matters when he asked you to undertake the care of another patient."

Vera Deane’s face lighted with one of her rare smiles. "Oh, no," she protested. "We nurses are always glad to assist in emergencies. Dr. Noyes came in to see Mr. Porter and he[3] explained that one of your aunt’s dinner guests had been taken ill, and requested me to make him comfortable for the night."

"Still, with all you have to do for poor Craig it’s putting too much on you," objected Wyndham. "Let me telephone into Washington for another night nurse, or, better still, call Nurse Hall."

Vera laid a detaining hand on his arm. "Mrs. Hall was ill herself when she went off duty; she needs her night’s rest," she said earnestly. "I assure you that I am quite capable of taking care of two patients."

"It wasn’t that," Hugh paused and reddened uncomfortably, started to speak, then, thinking better of his first impulse, added lamely, "I never doubted your ability, but—but—you’ve been under such a strain with Craig—"

"Mr. Porter is improving," interrupted Vera swiftly. "And as my new patient is not seriously ill—"

"True," Wyndham agreed, slightly relieved. "Just an attack of vertigo—Noyes and I got him to bed without calling you." He did not think it necessary to add that he[4] had stopped the surgeon sending for her. "Noyes said you need only look in once or twice during the night and see that he is all right." A thought occurred to him, and he added hastily: "Perhaps I can sit up with him—"

"That will hardly be necessary." Vera’s tone of decision was unmistakable. "I thank you for the offer," raising grave eyes to his. Wyndham bowed somewhat stiffly and moved away. "Just a moment, Mr. Wyndham; what is the name of my new patient?"

Wyndham’s glance was a mixture of doubt and admiration.

"He is Bruce Brainard, a well-known civil engineer," he said slowly, halting by the head of the winding staircase. He looked thoughtfully over the banisters before again addressing her. "Brainard is just back from South America. I had no idea my aunt and Millicent knew him so well, why"—in a sudden burst of confidence—"Brainard gave me to understand before dinner that he and Millicent were engaged. Let me know if I can assist you, Miss Deane. Good night," and barely waiting to hear her mumbled reply he plunged down the stairs.

[5]Vera Deane’s return to the sick room was noiseless. She found her patient lying on his side, apparently asleep, one arm shielding his face and leaving exposed his tousled iron-gray hair. Vera glanced at the empty medicine glass on the table by the bed, and a relieved sigh escaped her; evidently Bruce Brainard had obeyed Dr. Noyes’ instructions and swallowed the dose prepared for him.

Making no unnecessary sound Vera arranged the room for the night, screening the window so that a draught would not blow directly on Brainard; lighted a night light and, placing a small silver bell on the bed-table within easy reach of the patient, she turned out the acetylene gas jet and glided from the room.

Entering the bedroom next to that occupied by Bruce Brainard Vera smoothed the sheets for Craig Porter, lying motionless on his back, and made the paralytic comfortable with fresh, cool pillows; then taking a chair somewhat removed from the bed, she shaded her eyes from the feeble rays of the night light and was soon buried in her own thoughts. Dr. Noyes had made a professional call on Craig Porter earlier in the evening, and he had[6] forbidden Mrs. Porter or her daughter going to the sick room after six o’clock.

As the night wore on sounds reached Vera of the departure of guests, and first light then heavy footsteps passing back and forth in the hall indicated that Mrs. Porter and her household were retiring for the night. At last all noise ceased, and Vera, lost in memories of the past, forgot the flight of time.

"Tick-tock, tick-tock"—Bruce Brainard’s dulled wits tried to count the strokes, but unavailingly; he had lost all track of time. He was only conscious of eyes glaring down at him. He dared not look up, and for long minutes lay in agony, bathed in profuse perspiration. His eyelids seemed weighed down with lead, but he could not keep his cramped position much longer, and in desperation his eyes flew open as he writhed nearer the bed-table. His breath came in easier gasps as he became aware that the large bedroom was empty, and he passed a feverish, shaking hand across his wet forehead. Pshaw! his imagination was running away with him. But was it?

Again he glimpsed eyes gazing at him from a corner of the room—eyes moving steadily[7] nearer and nearer until even the surrounding darkness failed to hide their expression. A sob broke from Brainard, and his hand groped for the bell, only to fall palsied by his side.

Dawn was breaking and the faint, fresh breeze of early morning parted the curtains before a window and disclosed to an inquisitive snow robin a figure bending over a stationary washstand. Quickly the skilled fingers made a paste of raw starch and, spreading it gently over the stained linen, let it stand for a moment, then rinsed it in cold water. With great patience the operation was repeated until at last the linen, once more spotless, was laid across an improvised ironing-board, and an electric iron soon smoothed out each crease and wrinkle. Leaving every article in its accustomed place, the worker paused for an instant, then stole from the bathroom and through the silent house.

[8]
CHAPTER II
TRAGEDY
"RAT-A-TAT! Rat-a-tat-tat!"

The imperative summons on his bedroom door roused Hugh Wyndham. It seemed but a moment since he had fallen asleep, and he listened in uncomprehending surprise to the repeated drummings, which grew in volume and rapidity. His hesitancy was but momentary, however, and springing out of bed he seized a bathrobe, unlocked the door and jerked it open with such precipitancy that Vera Deane’s clenched fist expended its force on empty air instead of on the wooden panel. Her livid face changed the words on Wyndham’s lips.

"What’s happened?" he demanded. "Craig isn’t—?"

"No—no—not Mr. Porter"—in spite of every effort to remain calm Vera was on the point of fainting. Totally unconscious of her action she laid her hand in Wyndham’s, and[9] his firm clasp brought a touch of comfort. "It’s B—Mr. Brainard. Come!" And turning, she sped down the hall, her rubber-heeled slippers making no more sound on the thick carpet than Wyndham’s bare feet. She paused before a partly opened door and, resting against the wall, her strength deserting her, she signed to her companion to enter the bedroom.

Without wasting words Wyndham dashed by the nurse and reached the foot of the bed; but there he stopped, and a horrified exclamation broke from him. Bruce Brainard lay on the once spotless white linen in a pool of blood which had flowed from a frightful gash across his throat.

Wyndham passed a shaking hand before his eyes and turned blindly toward the door and collided with Vera.

"Don’t come in," he muttered hoarsely. "It’s no spectacle for a woman." And as she drew back into the hall again he burst out almost violently: "God! Brainard can’t be dead, really dead?" He glared at her. "Why didn’t you go for Noyes instead of me? He’d know what to do."

Vera shook her head. "Mr. Brainard was lifeless when I found him"—her voice gained[10] steadiness as her years of training in city hospitals and still grimmer experiences in the American Hospital Corps abroad came to her aid, and she grew the more composed of the two. "I went first to summon Dr. Noyes—but his room was empty."

"Empty!" echoed Wyndham dazedly. "At this hour?" and his glance roved about the hall, taking in the still burning acetylene gas jet at the far end of the hall, its artificial rays hardly showing in the increasing daylight. How could the household remain asleep with that ghastly tragedy so close at hand? He shuddered and turned half appealingly to Vera. "What’s to be done?"

"The coroner—"

"To be sure, the coroner"—Wyndham snatched at the suggestion. "Do you know his name?"

"No," Vera shook her head, "but I can ask ‘Central.’ I presume the coroner lives in Alexandria."

"Yes, yes." Wyndham was in a fever of unrest, chafing one hand over the other. "Then will you call him? I’ll wait here until you return."

Vera did not at once move down the hall.[11] "Had I not better awaken Mrs. Porter?" she asked.

"No, no," Wyndham spoke with more show of authority. "I will break the news to my aunt when you get back. The telephone is in the library. Go there."

He was doubtful if she heard his parting injunction for, hurrying to the stairway, she paused and moved as if to enter Mrs. Porter’s boudoir, the door of which stood ajar; then apparently thinking better of her evident intention, she went noiselessly downstairs and Wyndham, listening intently, detected the faint sound made by the closing of a door on the floor below. Not until then did he relax his tense attitude.

Stepping back into Brainard’s bedroom he closed the door softly and stood contemplating his surroundings, his eyes darting here and there until each detail of the large handsomely furnished bedroom was indelibly fixed in his mind.

There was no sign of a struggle having taken place; the two high-backed chairs and the lounge stood in their accustomed places; the quaint Colonial dresser near the window, the highboy against the farther wall, and the bed-table[12] were undisturbed. Only the bed with its motionless burden was tossed and tumbled.

Wyndham hastily averted his eyes, but not before he had seen the opened razor lying on the sheet to the left of Brainard and just beyond the grasp of the stiffened fingers. Drawing in his breath with a hissing noise, Wyndham retreated to his post outside the door and waited with ever increasing impatience for the return of Vera Deane.

The noise of the opening and shutting of a door which had reached Wyndham, contrary to his deductions, had been made not by the one giving into the library, but by the front door. Vera Deane all but staggered out on the portico and leaned against one of the columns. The cold bracing air was a tonic in itself, and she drank it down in deep gulps, while her gaze strayed over the sloping lawn and the hills in the background, then across to where the Potomac River wound its slow way between the Virginia and Maryland shores. The day promised to be fair, and through the clear atmosphere she could dimly distinguish the distant Washington Monument and the spires of the National Capital snugly[13] ensconced among the rolling uplands of Maryland.

The quaint atmosphere of a bygone age which enveloped the old Virginia homestead had appealed to Vera from the first moment of her arrival, and she had grown to love the large rambling country house whose hospitality, like its name, "Dewdrop Inn," had descended from generation to generation. Mrs. Lawrence Porter had elected to spend the winter there instead of opening her Washington residence.

Three months had passed since Vera had been engaged to attend Craig Porter; three months of peace and tranquillity, except for the duties of the sick room; three months in which she had regained physical strength and mental rest, and now—

Abruptly turning her back upon the view Vera re-entered the front hall and made her way down its spacious length until she came to the door she sought. A draught of cold air blew upon her as she stepped over the threshold, and with a slight exclamation of surprise she crossed the library to one of the long French windows which stood partly open. It gave upon a side portico and, stepping outside,[14] she looked up and down the pathway which circled the house. No one was in sight, and slightly perplexed she drew back, closed the window, and walked over to the telephone instrument which stood on a small table near by. Her feeling of wonderment grew as she touched the receiver—it was still warm from the pressure of a moist hand.

Vera paused in the act of lifting the receiver from its hook and glanced keenly about the library; apparently she was alone in the room, but which member of the household had preceded her at the telephone?

The old "grandfather" clock in one corner of the library was just chiming a quarter of six when a sleepy "Central" answered her call. It took several minutes to make the operator understand that she wished to speak to the coroner at Alexandria, and there was still further delay before the "Central" announced: "There’s your party."

Coroner Black stopped Vera’s explanations with an ejaculation, and his excited intonation betrayed the interest her statement aroused.

"I can’t get over for an hour or two," he called. "You say you have no physician—let me see! Ah, yes! Send for Beverly[15] Thorne; he’s a justice of the peace as well as a physician. Tell him to take charge until I come;" and click went his receiver on the hook.

Vera looked dubiously at the telephone as she hung up the receiver. Pshaw! It was no time for indecision—what if an ancient feud did exist between the Thornes and the Porters, as testified by the "spite wall" erected by a dead and gone Porter to obstruct the river view from "Thornedale"! In the presence of sudden death State laws had to be obeyed, and such things as the conventions, aye, and feuds, must be brushed aside. Only two days before, when motoring with Mrs. Porter, that stately dame had indicated the entrance to "Thornedale" with a solemn inclination of her head and the statement that its present owner, Dr. Beverly Thorne, would never be received at her house. But Coroner Black desired his immediate presence there that morning! In spite of all she had been through, a ghost of a smile touched Vera’s lovely eyes as she laid aside the telephone directory and again called "Central."

Five seconds, ten seconds passed before the operator, more awake, reported that there was no response to her repeated rings.

[16]"Keep it up," directed Vera, and waited in ever growing irritation.

"Well?" came a masculine voice over the wires. "What is it?"

"I wish to speak to Dr. Beverly Thorne."

"This is Dr. Thorne at the telephone—speak louder, please."

Vera leaned nearer the instrument. "Mr. Bruce Brainard has died suddenly while visiting Mrs. Lawrence Porter. Kindly come at once to Dewdrop Inn."

No response; and Vera, with rising color, was about to repeat her request more peremptorily when Thorne spoke.

"Did Mr. Brainard die without medical attendance?" he asked.

It was Vera’s turn to hesitate. "I found him dead with his throat cut," she stated, and the huskiness of her voice blurred the words so that she had to repeat them. This time she was not kept waiting for a reply.

"I will be right over," shouted Thorne.

Yes, I heard
"Yes, I heard," Millicent could hardly articulate.

As Vera rose from the telephone stand a sound to her left caused her to wheel in that direction. Leaning for support against a revolving bookcase stood Millicent Porter, and[17] her waxen pallor brought a startled cry to Vera’s lips.

"Yes, I heard." Millicent could hardly articulate, and her glance strayed hopelessly about the room. "I—I must go to mother."

"Surely." Vera laid a soothing hand on her shoulder. "But first take a sip of this," and she poured out a glass of cognac from the decanter left in the room after the dinner the night before. She had almost to force the stimulant down the girl’s throat, then, placing her arm about her waist, she half supported her out of the room and up the staircase.

As they came into view Hugh Wyndham left his post by Brainard’s door and darted toward them. Millicent waved him back and shrank from his proffered hand.

"Not now, dear Hugh," she stammered, reading the compassion in his fine dark eyes. "I must see mother—and alone." With the false strength induced by the cognac she freed herself gently from Vera’s encircling arm and, entering her mother’s bedroom, closed the door behind her.

Wyndham and Vera regarded each other in silence. "Better so," he muttered. "I confess I dreaded breaking the news to Aunt[18] Margaret." The gong in the front hall rang loudly and he started. "Who’s coming here at this hour?" he questioned, turning to descend the stairs.

"It is probably Dr. Thorne, the justice of the peace," volunteered Vera, taking a reluctant step toward Brainard’s bedroom. "He said he would run right over."

"Run over!" echoed Wyndham blankly. "Thorne? You surely don’t mean Beverly Thorne?"

"Yes."

Wyndham missed a step and recovered his balance with difficulty just as a sleepy, half-dressed footman appeared in the hall below hastening to the front door. Wyndham continued to gaze at Vera as if not crediting the evidence of his ears. From below came the murmur of voices, then a man stepped past the bewildered servant and approached the staircase. Then only did Wyndham recover his customary poise.

"This way, Dr. Thorne," he called softly, and waited while the newcomer handed his overcoat and hat to the footman and joined him on the stairs. Vera, an interested spectator, watched the two men greet each other[19] stiffly, then turning she led the way into Brainard’s bedroom.

Neither man guessed the effort it cost Vera to keep her eyes turned on the dead man as with a tremor now and then in her voice she recounted how she had entered the bedroom to see her patient and had made the ghastly discovery.

"I then notified Mr. Wyndham," she concluded.

"Did you visit your patient during the night?" questioned Thorne, never taking his eyes from the beautiful woman facing him.

"Yes, doctor, at half past one o’clock. Mr. Brainard was fast asleep."

"And the remainder of the night—"

"I spent with my other patient, Mr. Craig Porter." Vera moved restlessly. "If you do not require my assistance, doctor, I will return to Mr. Porter," and barely waiting for Thorne’s affirmative nod, she slipped away, and resumed her seat in the adjoining bedroom halfway between the window and Craig Porter’s bedside.

From that vantage point she had an unobstructed view of the shapely head and broad shoulders of the young athlete whose[20] prowess in college sports had gained a name for him even before his valor in the aviation corps of the French army had heralded him far and near. He had been taken from under his shattered aeroplane six months before in a supposedly dying condition, but modern science had wrought its miracle and snatched him from the grave to bring him back to his native land a hopeless paralytic, unable to move hand or foot.

As she listened to Craig Porter’s regular breathing Vera permitted her thoughts to turn to Beverly Thorne; his quiet, self-possessed manner, his finely molded mouth and chin and expressive gray eyes, had all impressed her favorably, but how account for his lack of interest in Bruce Brainard—he had never once glanced toward the bed while she was recounting her discovery of the tragedy. Why had he looked only at her so persistently?

Had Vera been able to see through lath and plaster, her views would have undergone a change. Working with a skill and deftness that aroused Wyndham’s reluctant admiration, Beverly Thorne made a thorough examination of the body and the bed, taking care not to disarrange anything. Each piece of[21] furniture and the articles on tables, dresser, and mantel received his attention, even the curtains before the window were scrutinized.

"Has anyone besides you and Miss Deane been in this room since the discovery of the tragedy?" asked Thorne, breaking his long silence.

"No."

"When was Mr. Brainard taken ill?"

"During dinner last night. Dr. Noyes said it would be unwise for him to return to Washington, so Mrs. Porter suggested that he stay here all night, and I loaned him a pair of pajamas," Wyndham, talking in short, jerky sentences, felt Thorne’s eyes boring into him.

"I should like to see Dr. Noyes," began Thorne. "Where—"

"I’ll get him," Wyndham broke in, hastening to the door; he disappeared out of the room just as Thorne picked up the razor and holding it between thumb and forefinger examined it with deep interest.

However, Wyndham was destined to forget his errand for, as he sped down the hall, a door opened and his aunt confronted him.

"Wait, Hugh." Mrs. Porter held up an imperative hand. "Millicent has told me of[22] poor Bruce’s tragic death, and Murray," indicating the footman standing behind her, "informs me that Dr. Beverly Thorne has had the effrontery to force his way into this house—and at such a time."

She spoke louder than customary under the stress of indignation, and her words reached Beverly Thorne as he appeared in the hall. He never paused in his rapid stride until he joined the little group, and his eyes did not fall before the angry woman’s gaze.

"It is only at such a time as this that I would think of intruding," he said. "Kindly remember, madam, that I am here in my official capacity only. Before I sign a death certificate, an inquest must decide whether your guest, Bruce Brainard, committed suicide—or was murdered."

[23]
CHAPTER III
TESTIMONY
THE day nurse, Mrs. Christine Hall, the severe lines of her face showing more plainly in the strong afternoon light and her forehead puckered in a frown, watched from the bedroom window the parking of automobiles on the lawn before "Dewdrop Inn," with an ear attentively cocked to catch any sound from the bed where Craig Porter lay looking at the opposite wall with expressionless eyes. The mud-incrusted automobiles were little varied in shape or make, and the men who climbed out of them were mostly of middle age, and the seriousness of their manner as they greeted each other, or stood in groups chatting with late comers, impressed Nurse Hall. As the last one disappeared up the steps of the portico and out of her line of vision, she left the window and hurried to a closed door, but before she could turn the knob the door opened and Vera Deane stepped into the bedroom.

[24]"I was just going to call you," exclaimed Nurse Hall. "The men seem all to have arrived."

Vera consulted her wrist watch. "The inquest was called for two o’clock; they are prompt."

"To the minute," agreed her companion. "Are you going downstairs immediately?"

"No, not until sent for." Vera turned and wandered restlessly about the room, taking care, however, that her footfall made no sound which might disturb Craig Porter. She stopped in the shadow of a large wing chair and regarded the motionless figure on the bed long and intently. When she looked away she found Nurse Hall at her side.

"Does he always stare straight before him?" she asked, almost below her breath.

"Yes." Nurse Hall shuddered. "Always that same fixed stare. You can bless your stars that you have him at night when he is generally asleep. Sometimes he gives me the creeps."

"Does he never speak?"

"No, never, and I don’t believe he ever will; the muscles of his throat are paralyzed. But you need not whisper"—raising her[25] voice. "He doesn’t understand a word we say."

"But our talking may annoy him." The older woman colored; she was sensitive about her voice, never having been able to conquer its shrill quality, and she did not take kindly to any criticism of her conduct of a sick room, especially from a younger and more inexperienced nurse. Vera laid a quiet hand on her arm. "Forgive the suggestion, but I cannot rid myself of the belief that often those we think unconscious hear and understand more than we imagine."

"Tut, my dear, not in this case. Mr. Porter understands nothing said to him, even by his mother; and it’s been that way from the first," Nurse Hall added, seating herself in the armchair. "I was here when they brought him back from Europe, and I must say that Dr. Noyes has worked wonders—"

Vera was not listening—voices in the hall and the sound of advancing footsteps came to them through the half-open door.

"Have you been notified to attend the inquest?" she asked. Her question passed unheeded until Nurse Hall, raising a very red[26] face from the exertion of stooping, had tied her shoestring.

"No, I don’t have to go down," she answered, puffing slightly. "I slept soundly all last night. It is too bad your rest has to be disturbed this afternoon; if you wish"—a sidelong glance accompanied the words—"I will continue on duty until midnight and give you an opportunity to make up lost sleep."

"I don’t believe I could sleep now, thanks all the same. You forget I found the—the body," and a shudder which she could not suppress shook Vera. "I see it whenever I close my eyes."

"You poor thing!" Her companion patted her arm sympathetically. "We’ll sleep better and feel differently after the inquest and they remove the body. Someone is stopping at the door."

Not waiting for the low rap that sounded a second later, Vera had sped to open the door, and she found Murray, the footman, standing in the hall.

"You are wanted, miss, in the library," he said, and without a backward glance Vera closed the bedroom door and followed the servant down the staircase.

[27]Two men, strangers to her, were lounging in the square entrance hall near the front door, and at her approach they turned and watched her until the portières, which divided the hall, hid her tall, graceful figure from their sight. Vera paused an instant before opening the library door, then, taking a deep breath, she stepped inside the room.

Grouped about the long center table were six men, while an elderly man occupied a chair near at hand, and the eighth man in the room sat before a side table taking notes. The elderly man, whose authoritative air rightly led Vera to conclude that he was Coroner Black, was on his feet instantly on catching sight of the new witness, and pulled forward a chair for her.

"Miss Deane?" he questioned, and she bowed a silent response. "Then sit here, madam, after McPherson administers the oath," and at his words the man at the small table stepped forward, Bible in hand.

The homelike appearance of the library and the comfortably seated men, some with up-tilted chairs and sprawling legs, robbed the inquest of its legal atmosphere, but as Vera repeated the oath "to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me[28] God!" she became conscious of the concentrated regard of her companions, and her back stiffened as she seated herself bolt upright in the chair evidently set aside for the witnesses. She faced the windows, and the afternoon sunshine, like kindly fingers, touched her quaint snow-white cap, and gave a tint of red to her waving, curly hair, as her hazel eyes were calmly lifted to encounter the coroner’s penetrating gaze.

"Are you a native of Washington City, Miss Deane?" he asked, first giving Deputy Coroner McPherson time to resume his seat and prepare to take notes.

"I was born in Washington twenty-six years ago," was the quiet reply.

"Have you resided continuously in Washington?"

"No, sir, not after the death of my parents," replied Vera. "I went West, then later studied to be a trained nurse at the University of Pennsylvania, graduating from there four years ago."

"How long have you been attending Mr. Craig Porter?"

"A little over three months."

"And what do your duties comprise?"

[29]"I am night nurse." Her concise reply won an approving nod from one of the jurors.

"Were you summoned to nurse Mr. Bruce Brainard when he became ill last night?"

"I was, sir."

"Then did you spend the night by his bedside?"

"No, sir."

"Why not?"

The question shot from the coroner, and Vera’s fingers tightened their grip on the arm of her chair, but her voice was not raised or ruffled as she answered slowly:

"Mr. Brainard’s condition was so improved after taking the medicine prescribed by Dr. Noyes that he did not require my attendance, and I therefore returned to my customary duties in Mr. Porter’s bedroom."

"Do the bedrooms occupied by Mr. Porter and Mr. Brainard adjoin each other?" inquired Coroner Black.

"They do, sir, but there is no communicating door between them."

"Ah! Then to enter Mr. Brainard’s bedroom from Mr. Porter’s you had to go into the main hall and from there into Mr. Brainard’s bedroom?"

[30]"Yes, sir."

"Then while with Mr. Porter you were cut off by a solid wall from all communication with your other patient?" questioned the coroner, intently studying a rough sketch of the interior of the house which he held in his hand.

"Not entirely," explained Vera quickly. "There is a transom between the two rooms which remains open, and I would have heard instantly if Mr. Brainard had called me."

"Did he call you?" asked the coroner eagerly, and his face fell at her monosyllabic "No."

"Did you hear any noise in Mr. Brainard’s bedroom during the night?" he began, after a pause.

"Not a sound, sir."

"Did you go in to see how he was during the night?"

"Yes, once, about half past one. Judging from his regular breathing that Mr. Brainard was sleeping I tiptoed out of the room without approaching his bed, and resumed my watch in the next room."

"Was there any light in Mr. Brainard’s room?"

[31]"Yes, I placed a night light on the bed-stand."

"Did the candle give sufficient light for you to see Mr. Brainard’s position in bed?" questioned Coroner Black.

"Yes, sir; he lay on his left side with his face turned toward the door," answered Vera. "His face was somewhat in shadow as his back was turned to the bed-table on which the night light stood, but I could see that his eyes were closed."

"Was he lying in the same position when you found him dead the next morning?"

"No." Vera whitened as the scene of the tragedy flashed before her mental vision. "Mr. B-Brainard then lay on his back staring straight up at the ceiling, his head twisted to one side. Oh!" and one hand flew upward covering her eyes. "I can never forget the expression of his face—the look of fear—of agony. Gentlemen"—her hand dropping to her side, while she steadied herself with determined effort—"he must have suffered horribly—before he died."

"And you, awake in the next room, heard no sound?" Coroner Black repeated his former question with quiet persistence.

[32]"I heard no sound," responded Vera mechanically. "Absolutely no sound."

A pause followed as Coroner Black fumbled among the papers lying on the table. When he removed his hand his fingers clutched a razor.

"Have you seen this razor before?" he inquired, offering it to her.

Vera shrank back. "I saw a razor lying on the bed beside Mr. Brainard. I did not pick it up or examine it closely."

"You mean that you cannot identify this as the razor which you saw lying on Mr. Brainard’s bed this morning?"

"Yes," and there was a change in her tone, too subtle to be detected by the coroner. She hurried on before he could ask another question: "On discovering Mr. Brainard’s condition this morning I went for Dr. Noyes, and as he was not in his room, I hastened to get Mr. Hugh Wyndham."

"How do you know that Dr. Noyes was not in his room?" demanded Coroner Black.

Vera looked at him in surprise. "When I received no response to my repeated raps, I turned the handle of the door and entered his bedroom—it was empty."

"Did you meet anyone in the hall on your way to summon Dr. Noyes and Mr. Wyndham?"

[33]"No, sir, no one."

Coroner Black rose. "I think that is all, Miss Deane; no, stay, there is one other point—were you sent for when Mr. Brainard was taken ill at the dinner table?"

"No. I was not aware of his illness until Dr. Noyes informed me that he and Mr. Wyndham had assisted a guest, who was suffering from vertigo, into the spare bedroom, and directed me to administer a dose of aromatic spirits of ammonia, and to make him comfortable for the night, and then to return to Mr. Porter."

Coroner Black referred to his notes before again addressing her.

"Did you observe where Mr. Brainard’s clothes had been placed?" he asked.

Vera wrinkled her pretty forehead in thought. "I believe they were lying on the sofa, but I cannot swear to it," she replied.

"Do you recall seeing the clothes this morning?"

"I do not, sir," was her prompt reply.[34] "My whole attention was absorbed by the—the figure on the bed. I was too—too terrified to observe anything else in the room."

Coroner Black stared at her intently; her repose of manner and air of efficiency were at variance with her words. Judging from appearances she seemed the last person to lose her head in an emergency.

"That is all," he announced, and covered his abruptness with an old-fashioned bow as he preceded her to the door. "I thank you, Miss Deane."

With a slight inclination of her head to the jurors Vera slipped out of the room and made haste toward the staircase, but not before she heard Coroner Black’s low-toned command to the footman to enter the library.

The well-trained servant stood while the oath was being administered to him, then subsided into the seat indicated and waited patiently for the coroner to address him.

"State your full name and occupation," directed the latter, examining the footman’s intelligent face, somber livery, and general air of respectability.

"Murray, sir, John Murray," and the Scotch burr was unmistakable. "I’ve been[35] second man to Mrs. Porter, sir, for going on seven years."

"Did you admit Mr. Brainard when he arrived here last night?"

"I did, sir."

"Did he have a bag or suitcase with him?"

"No, sir."

"Did you assist Dr. Noyes and Mr. Wyndham in conducting Mr. Brainard to his bedroom after his attack of illness in the dining-room?"

"No, sir; he could walk with the assistance of the other gentlemen."

There was silence as Coroner Black referred to his notebook, and his manner grew stern when he turned back to the witness.

"The butler, Selby, has testified you mentioned to the servants that you went to the assistance of Mr. Brainard when he was taken ill. Did you make such a statement?"

"I did, sir; and it is true—I assisted Mr. Brainard when he had his first attack, sir."

"Ah, when was that?" and the coroner looked at him with quickened interest.

"Just after him and Miss Millicent had had words in the garden beyond," indicating the windows and the portico. "I was in here[36] arranging the liqueurs and cigars, sir, when I heard a scream through the partly open window, and I ran out and found Miss Millicent cowering against one of the big pillars and saying: ‘No, no!’ between her sobs." He stopped abruptly. "I beg your pardon for talking so much."

"Go on," commanded Black. "Tell us everything." The jurors and the deputy coroner were hanging on the footman’s words.

"Miss Millicent bolted by me into the house, and I was just turning to follow her when Mr. Brainard appeared out of the darkness—Miss Millicent had been standing where the light from the library fell on her," he explained. "Mr. Brainard staggered toward me, and before I could reach him, he fell." Murray cleared his throat and eyed each one of his expectant hearers; he enjoyed the sensation his testimony was producing.

"Well, what then?" prompted Coroner Black.

"I picked up Mr. Brainard; no easy matter, sir, for he was a dead weight"—the footman was not to be hurried—"and I carried him in here, sir, plumped him down in that chair and gave him a drink of cognac."

[37]"What appeared to be the matter with him?"

"He said he was dizzy like, and that everything swam before him," explained Murray, with careful attention to detail. "He was very red in the face and shook all over; but the cognac brought him around after a bit, and, asking me to say nothing of his little upset, he went on into the drawing-room."

"Was he in evening clothes?" The foreman of the jury spoke for the first time and looked somewhat alarmed at the sound of his own voice.

"Surely, sir; it was shortly before dinner was announced. Mr. Brainard motored out and reached here about half past six."

"When was dinner served?" inquired Black.

"Eight o’clock, sir."

"Humph!" The coroner jotted down the figures in his notebook. "Was Mr. Brainard a frequent caller here?"

"He was, sir, last year, but not recently, sir." The footman paused thoughtfully, and then added: "Not since Dr. Noyes has been here."

Coroner Black wheeled on him sharply. "What do you mean by that remark?"

[38]"Nothing, sir." Murray’s eyes opened in astonishment. "I was only trying to place the last time I’d seen Mr. Brainard here. My master, Mr. Craig Porter, and Dr. Noyes reached home early in October; yes, sir, Mr. Brainard hasn’t been here since then, I’m sure."

The coroner considered the footman in silence for several seconds.

"When did you last see Dr. Noyes?" he asked finally.

"About midnight, sir. I went up to his room to ask if I could do anything for him. Part of my duties is valeting for Mr. Hugh and Mr. Craig, and the gentlemen staying in the house," he added, reading the unspoken question on the coroner’s lips.

"How did Dr. Noyes appear?" inquired Black.

"Appear?" Murray reflected for a moment. "I can’t answer that, sir, for I didn’t really see him; the door was opened only a little way, and I just caught a glimpse of him as he stood before his chiffonier stropping his razor."

The coroner and Dr. McPherson exchanged glances.

[39]"Wasn’t that an unusual hour for such an occupation?" asked the former.

"Quite so, sir; but it was this way, sir"—Murray’s words tumbled over each other in his haste—"the doctor had shaved just before dinner, and I hadn’t had time to put away his things, and last night when I apologized for leaving his chiffonier in such disorder, sir, and offered to come in and straighten up, he told me it was midnight and to go to bed, that he had already cleaned the razor and put the mug away."

Coroner Black reached forward and picked up the razor he had shown Vera Deane.

"Does this razor belong to Dr. Noyes?" he asked.

A dead silence prevailed as Murray took the razor and examined the open blade with its reddish stains. He shook his head.

"No, sir, it is not Dr. Noyes’ razor."

[40]
CHAPTER IV
MORE TESTIMONY
CORONER BLACK took the razor from the footman and laid it carefully back on the table.

"You are excused," he announced, and, as Murray rose with alacrity, he added, "Inform Mrs. Porter that we will be obliged by her presence here."

"Yes, sir; certainly, sir," and Murray backed from the room, but before going upstairs to find Mrs. Porter he bolted into the pantry and mopped his white face which was damp with perspiration, then, refreshing himself with a glass of port, he went on his belated errand.

Inside the library the jurors whispered to one another, and at a muttered request the foreman picked up the razor, passed it to his neighbor, and each man at the table in turn examined the stained blade and handle with absorbed interest, while the coroner and[41] McPherson compared notes in an undertone. The opening of the hall door brought them all to attention, and Mrs. Porter’s entrance was greeted by a lengthened silence.

Hardly deigning to listen to Coroner Black’s explanation of the formalities to be gone through, she laid a bejeweled hand on the Bible presented to her by McPherson, and repeated the oath in an expressionless monotone.

"Pray be seated, madam," and Coroner Black pointed to the chair by which she was standing. "We will not detain you long," and in rapid succession he asked her her full name and length of residence in that vicinity.

"I have spent the summer months here ever since inheriting the property from my husband’s uncle," she said, in answer to the latter question. "This is the first winter that we have kept the house open, but Dr. Noyes deemed it inadvisable to move my son again, and so—" An expressive gesture completed the sentence.

"How long has Dr. Noyes been in attendance upon your son?" asked Black.

"He accompanied Craig home from the hospital in France." Real feeling betrayed itself in Mrs. Porter’s metallic tones. "My[42] son owes his life to his skill and his untiring attention. We shall miss him now that he has returned to England."

"Ah, then you think Dr. Noyes is on his way back to the front again?" Black was watching her closely as he toyed with his pencil.

"Certainly. Where else would he go?" glancing disdainfully at him. "No Englishman nowadays lingers behind when his leave of absence is over."

"But my dear madam, would Dr. Noyes depart so abruptly—without bidding you good-by; without the formality of notifying even the nurses in charge of your son that he would not be back?" asked Black incredulously.

"Dr. Noyes had been expecting a summons home for over ten days," explained Mrs. Porter, in a tone sometimes used to quiet a petulant child, and Black colored. "He had arranged to have the cable telephoned out to him; his bag stood packed, and whatever good-bys he had to say were said to my daughter and myself yesterday."

"At what hour did this cable reach Dr. Noyes?" demanded Black.

[43]"I presume during the night. He said that he would remain in the library on the chance of a telephone message coming for him," was her glib reply.

Black eyed her sharply. "Who is to attend your son in Dr. Noyes’ absence?" he asked, but if he hoped to trap Mrs. Porter he was disappointed. Her answer was prompt.

"Dr. Washburn of Alexandria. Dr. Noyes called him in consultation, and all arrangements were made last week to take over the case."

Coroner Black considered a moment before again addressing her, and Mrs. Porter permitted her gaze to wander about, noting inwardly the disarrangement of the usually orderly room, and she turned back to the jurors with a distinct air of disapproval. Coroner Black’s next question caused her to catch her breath sharply.

"Were your daughter and Mr. Bruce Brainard engaged to be married?" he asked.

"I question your right to ask that," she retorted. "My family affairs had nothing to do with Mr. Brainard’s shocking suicide."

"We are the best judges of that, madam,"[44] replied Black quietly. "It is our duty to expedite this inquiry, and to do so we must know whether or not Mr. Brainard was on friendly terms with each member of this household on the night of his death—"

"He was, sir, otherwise he would not have been my guest," broke in Mrs. Porter.

"Did you invite him to spend the night, or only to dine with you?"

"I simply asked him to dinner." She paused, then added: "He was taken ill at the dinner table, and my nephew, Mr. Wyndham, and Dr. Noyes helped him upstairs and put him to bed in one of the spare bedrooms. Dr. Noyes said that Mr. Brainard was in no condition to motor in to Washington last night."

"When did you last see Mr. Brainard?"

"When he left the dining-room."

Black looked at her attentively and noted the flush which had mounted to her pale cheeks during their colloquy.

"I must remind you, madam," he commenced, and his manner was serious, "that you have not answered my question regarding the relationship existing between your daughter and Mr. Brainard."

[45]"They were friends," curtly.

"Nothing more?" persisted the coroner.

Mrs. Porter regarded him with no friendly eye, then apparently thinking better of her brusqueness, answered more courteously:

"Mr. Brainard admired my daughter greatly, and paid her the compliment of asking my consent to their marriage."

"Did you give your consent?" prompted Black as she stopped.

"He was to have had my answer this morning."

"Oh!" The coroner gazed blankly at Mrs. Porter, failing utterly to appreciate her stately beauty and quietly gowned, modish figure. She was a remarkably well preserved woman, on whose face time had left few wrinkles, and she looked much younger than she was. Several seconds elapsed before Black again addressed her.

"Did your daughter reciprocate Mr. Brainard’s affection?"

"My daughter would not have accepted his attention had she not liked and admired him," she responded evasively, and Black lost all patience.

"Kindly give a direct answer to my question,"[46] he exclaimed harshly. "Were your daughter and Mr. Brainard engaged?"

"I believe there was an understanding to that effect," she admitted sullenly. "But until I gave my consent"—a shrug completed the sentence, and Black instantly asked:

"Why did you withhold your consent, madam?"

"You are laboring under a mistaken idea," replied Mrs. Porter coldly. "My consent was only asked yesterday, and I very properly told Mr. Brainard that I needed a night in which to think it over."

The coroner stroked his chin as he contemplated Mrs. Porter, then observing the jurors’ air of interest, asked more briskly: "When did you make Mr. Brainard’s acquaintance?"

"About a year ago, and until he went to South America he was a frequent visitor at my house." Mrs. Porter glanced involuntarily at the clock as it chimed the hour, and the coroner rose.

"Please give me the names of your dinner guests," he said, picking up a pencil and drawing a pad toward him.

"Captain and Mrs. Mark Willert, Miss[47] Margaret Spencer, my daughter Millicent, my nephew, Mr. Hugh Wyndham, Dr. Noyes, Mr. Brainard—let me see, that makes eight," checking them off on her finger. "I have a few intimate friends in to dinner every week on Millicent’s account. I do not want her brother’s distressing illness to cast too great a shadow on my daughter’s young life."

"Is your son improving?"

"Yes, thank God!" Mrs. Porter’s eyes shone with a softer light and her voice shook. "Dr. Noyes and time will work wonders in his condition. I"—she paused and steadied her voice—"I have every confidence in Dr. Noyes."

Coroner Black bowed. "We will not keep you longer, madam; but before you leave kindly examine this razor and tell us if you can identify it."

"I will look at it, certainly." It took her a second or two to disentangle her lorgnette chain from a tassel on her gown, then raising her glasses she stared at the blood-stained article. "To the best of my knowledge I have not seen it before," she announced, rising, and at a sign from the coroner retreated toward the hall door, hardly responding to the foreman’s curt nod.

[48]Bidding her a courteous good afternoon, Coroner Black opened the door and waited for her to pass into the hall, then stepped after her in time to see her pause and draw back into an alcove as Dr. Beverly Thorne approached them. If Dr. Thorne observed the latent air of hostility and discourtesy in her bearing there was no indication of it in his unruffled manner as he greeted the coroner.

"Sorry to be late, Black," he said. "But an important case—" as he spoke he removed his overcoat and handed it and his hat to the attentive footman. "Do you wish me to testify now?"

"No. I want you here in your capacity of ‘J. P.,’" responded the coroner. "In other words, look, listen and—note." The last word was added as he held the library door ajar before throwing it wide open. "Murray, request Mr. Hugh Wyndham to come to the library."

Thorne exchanged a low-toned word with McPherson and several of the jurors before slipping into a large wing chair which partly concealed his presence. Hugh Wyndham had evidently been awaiting the summons, for he followed hard upon the heels of the footman[49] and stepped briskly into the library. The preliminaries were quickly gone through with, and Wyndham, while waiting for the coroner to question him, occupied his time in inspecting his companions, and his eyes contracted slightly at sight of Beverly Thorne, who sat gazing idly at the log fire which blazed in the stone fireplace, and added greatly to the picturesqueness and comfort of the well proportioned room.

"State your full name and occupation, Mr. Wyndham," requested the coroner, resuming his seat.

"Hugh Wyndham, stock broker, just now not connected with any firm," he added by way of explanation. "Since the failure in November of the banking house of Mullen Company with which I was connected I have been residing with my aunt, Mrs. Lawrence Porter."

"Were you and Mr. Brainard old friends, Mr. Wyndham?"

"We have known each other for over a year, but were acquaintances rather than friends," replied Wyndham, flicking a white thread from his coat sleeve.

Black shot a questioning look at him. "Do[50] I understand that you were not friends?" he asked.

"Oh, we were friendly enough on the few occasions that we met, but our professions gave us very few opportunities to become better acquainted."

"What was Mr. Brainard’s occupation?"

"He was a mining engineer."

The coroner leaned over and consulted Dr. McPherson’s notes, then, sitting back in his chair, asked: "Did Mr. Brainard complain of feeling ill before dinner last night?"

"No, except to tell Captain Willert and myself that the climate in South America had played the devil with him."

"Were you present at the dinner table when he was taken ill last night?"

"Yes. Dr. Noyes said that he was suffering from vertigo, and Mrs. Porter suggested that we take him upstairs and put him to bed."

Again Coroner Black referred to McPherson’s notes before asking another question.

"Did Mr. Brainard have any suitcase or luggage with him?" he inquired.

"No. I loaned him a pair of my pyjamas."

"When did you last see Mr. Brainard alive?"

[51]"I left him in bed, apparently better, and followed Dr. Noyes downstairs."

"Leaving no one with the sick man?" asked Black swiftly.

"Yes, Miss Deane," responded Wyndham. "Dr. Noyes sent her to look after Brainard. Miss Deane said that she would be within call if he needed assistance during the night." He hesitated, and then added, "I volunteered to sit up with Brainard, but she said that it was not necessary."

"Were you disturbed by noises during the night?"

"No." Wyndham shifted his position, and one foot tapped the floor incessantly. "I am a heavy sleeper and my room is some distance from that occupied by Brainard."

"You were asleep when Miss Deane rapped at your door this morning?"

"Yes."

"You accompanied her to Mr. Brainard’s bedroom?"

"I did."

"Describe the condition in which you found Mr. Brainard and his bedroom," directed Black, polishing his eyeglasses, and replacing them to scrutinize the witness more closely.

[52]"I found Brainard lying on his back on the right side of his bed." Wyndham stopped and moistened his lips. "His throat was cut and the wound had bled profusely."

"Did you find any weapon in the room?"

"An open blood-stained razor was lying on the bed beside Brainard."

"Did you touch it?"

"No."

"Mr. Wyndham," Coroner Black spoke slowly, evidently weighing his words, "did you loan a razor as well as a pair of pyjamas to Mr. Brainard?"

"I did not," came the instant and emphatic denial.

"Then, if you did not give him the razor, how did Mr. Brainard secure possession of the razor which you saw on his bed?" asked Black. "You, and other witnesses, have testified that Mr. Brainard brought no luggage with him and did not come prepared to spend the night."

"I have puzzled over his possessing a razor," agreed Wyndham. "Then it occurred to me that perhaps he brought it with him from town intending to commit suicide on the way home."

[53]"An ingenious theory," acknowledged Black. "But why should Mr. Brainard plan to commit suicide when his engagement to a beautiful and wealthy girl was about to be announced?"

"Mr. Brainard’s ill health may have unbalanced his mind."

"Did Mr. Brainard show symptoms of insanity last night?" asked Black quietly.

"N-no." Wyndham thought a minute, then glanced at the coroner. "The attack of vertigo"—he began and stopped as Coroner Black smiled and shook his head.

"Mr. Wyndham"—Black turned abruptly and produced the razor—"have you seen this before?"

Wyndham took it from him gingerly. "It resembles the one I saw lying on the bed close by Brainard’s left hand," he said at last.

"It is the same one," announced Black shortly. "Had you ever seen this razor before finding it on Brainard’s bed this morning?"

"No." Wyndham examined it with care and then held up the razor so that all could see it. "It evidently belongs to a set, one to be used every day in the week—this particular razor is marked Monday—"

[54]"And today is Tuesday," commented the foreman of the jury. The juror nearest him nudged him to be quiet, and the coroner resumed his examination.

"To your knowledge, Mr. Wyndham, does anyone in this household own a set of razors such as you describe?" he demanded.

"No." Wyndham’s monosyllable rang out emphatically and his eyes met the coroner’s squarely. "Personally, I use an ordinary razor. Can I send for it?"

"Certainly," and the coroner turned to McPherson, who rose.

"You will find my razor in the top drawer of my bureau; Murray, the footman, will show you my room," explained Wyndham. "At the same time Murray can get the razor belonging to my cousin, Craig Porter. The footman shaves him," he supplemented, "using a Gillett safety razor."

"The footman is waiting in the hall," added Coroner Black, and, barely waiting for the closing of the library door behind McPherson, he asked: "Was Mr. Brainard left-handed?"

"I don’t think so." Wyndham considered the question. "No, I am sure that he was not. Once or twice I have played billiards[55] with him, and I would certainly have observed any such peculiarity."

A sudden movement on the part of Beverly Thorne brought the coroner’s attention to him.

"Do you care to question the witness, doctor?" he inquired and, as Thorne nodded, he explained hurriedly to Wyndham, whose brow had darkened ominously: "Dr. Thorne is a justice of the peace and is here to assist in this investigation at my request," with quiet emphasis on the last words, and Wyndham thought better of hot-tempered objections. Thorne rose and approached the center table before speaking.

"Mr. Wyndham," he began, "did you telephone into town that Mr. Brainard was ill and would spend the night in this house?"

"No," answered Wyndham, and his tone was of the curtest.

"To your knowledge did anyone else in this house telephone Brainard’s condition to friends in Washington?"

"I did not hear of it if they did."

"Then no one, outside this household, knew that Brainard was spending the night here?"

Wyndham moved impatiently. "You forget[56] Mrs. Porter had other dinner guests last night," he said stiffly. "They knew of his illness and his presence here."

"True," broke in the coroner. "Mrs. Porter has already furnished me with their names, and—" But before he could add more Thorne interposed with a question.

"How about Brainard’s chauffeur?"

"He had none, but drove his own car," responded Wyndham.

"Is that still here?"

"I believe so. Sims, Mrs. Porter’s chauffeur, reported it was in the garage this morning."

At that moment the door opened to admit McPherson, who advanced somewhat short of breath from hurrying, and laid an ordinary razor and a Gillett "safety" on the center table.

"The first razor I found in Mr. Wyndham’s bureau," he announced. "The second was handed to me by Miss Deane." He stopped to resume his seat, then continued more slowly: "The nurse showed me where Mr. Porter’s shaving things are kept in the bathroom between his bedroom and that occupied by the nurses."

[57]"Thanks, McPherson." Coroner Black replaced the blood-stained razor on the table beside the others. "You are excused, Mr. Wyndham."

Wyndham bowed and stepped past Thorne; at the door he hesitated, but, catching Thorne’s eyes, he turned and left the room without speaking.

"McPherson, will you take the stand?" directed Black, and the deputy coroner sat down in the chair reserved for the witnesses, after first having the oath administered to him. "You performed the autopsy on Mr. Brainard?" asked Black a few seconds later.

"I did." McPherson displayed an anatomical chart, and used his pencil as an indicator while he continued: "I found an incipient tumor of the brain. Brainard’s attacks of vertigo were due to that." The deputy coroner raised his voice as his pencil traveled down the chart and rested on the throat. "The wound was on the lower part of Brainard’s neck and the carotid artery was severed. He bled to death."

"Was the wound self-inflicted, doctor?" questioned Thorne, taking the chart and[58] examining it closely before passing it over to the juror nearest him.

McPherson shook his head at Thorne’s question. "I do not believe the wound was self-inflicted," he said, "for the wound commences under the right ear and extends toward the left; whereas, in the case of suicide the cut would have been made just the reverse."

McPherson’s words were listened to with deep attention, and in the silence that followed Thorne grew conscious of the loud ticking of the clock.

"Then in your opinion, McPherson," commented Coroner Black, "Bruce Brainard was murdered?"

"Yes," answered the deputy coroner. "The nature of the wound proves conclusively that it could not have been suicide."

"Unless," broke in Thorne, "unless Brainard was left-handed."

"That point can be easily settled," snapped the coroner. "That’s all, McPherson, thank you;" and as the doctor left the witness chair he added, "Kindly ask Detective Mitchell to step here."

It was growing darker in the room and Thorne walked over to the windows and[59] pushed back the long curtains and pulled up the Holland shades. The sunshine had almost totally disappeared, and the gray of late afternoon alone lighted the room. Thorne moved over to one of the lamps which were dotted about, and was busy lighting it when Detective Mitchell followed McPherson back into the room.

"Have you discovered which servants own razors in this house, Mitchell?" asked the coroner, after the new witness had answered other questions.

"Yes, sir." Mitchell took two razors from his pocket. "I have them each ticketed; this one belongs to the footman, Murray, and this to the butler, Selby."

The coroner accepted the two razors and compared them with the blood-stained one on the table, then he passed all three to the jurors.

"They are not in the least alike," he said thoughtfully. "Did you examine Dr. Noyes’ bedroom, Mitchell?"

"I did," answered the detective. "The bed had evidently been slept in, as the sheets and blankets were tumbled about, but all the doctor’s clothes were packed in his steamer trunk."

[60]"Was his trunk locked?"

"No, sir." Mitchell paused. "I examined its contents, but I could not find any razor or strop."

"Were his overcoat and hat in his closet?"

"No, nor downstairs in the coat closet," was Mitchell’s prompt response. "I questioned all the servants and Mrs. Porter, and they say that Dr. Noyes owned a large grip with his initials—it is missing, and I conclude that he has taken it with him, for Murray declares that some underclothes and one suit of clothes are missing."

"I see." Coroner Black frowned, then glanced toward Thorne, and the latter addressed the detective.

"Have you found any trace of burglars breaking into the house last night, Mitchell?"

"No. And I examined the ground about this house very thoroughly, as well as every window catch and keyhole; none have been tampered with. The servants declare they were securely locked last night, and found in the same condition this morning."

Thorne laid aside the pencil he had been twisting about in his fingers and pointed to the blood-stained razor.

[61]"Did you find finger marks on this razor?"

"No, none." Mitchell looked glum. "We tested every article in Mr. Brainard’s bedroom and could not find a trace of finger prints."

Thorne turned back to Coroner Black. "I have no further questions to ask the witness," and the coroner dismissed Mitchell.

"As you go out, Mitchell," he added, "please send word to Miss Millicent Porter that I would like to see her here."

By the time the hall door again opened every lamp the room boasted was lit, and Millicent Porter paused just within the library to accustom herself to the sudden glare. Thorne and the jurors noted the lines of care on her white face and the dark circles under her eyes, and as Thorne approached her he muttered under his breath, in subdued admiration, "What an exquisite child!" She seemed little more in her simple dark dress, and her beauty was of the ethereal type.

"We won’t keep you here very long, Miss Porter." Coroner Black bustled forward and, snatching up a cushion from the sofa, placed it in the witness chair. "You will be more comfortable so." She smiled her thanks,[62] looking up at him timidly. "Now, if you will rise for a second Dr. McPherson will—there," soothingly, observing her startled expression. "Just repeat the oath after McPherson and place your hand on the Bible—so. Now sit right here. Kindly tell the jurors your full name—"

"Millicent Porter."

"And how long have you known Mr. Brainard, Miss Porter?"

"A little over a year." She spoke with an effort and several of the jurors hitched their chairs nearer so as not to miss a word she said.

"And when did you become engaged to him?" inquired Coroner Black.

Millicent flushed scarlet. "I—I—" she stumbled badly. "We were—it was—" Then in an indignant rush, "My private affairs do not concern you; I decline to answer impertinent questions."

Coroner Black bowed and adjusted his eyeglasses, and to the disappointment of a number of the jurors he did not press the point.

"Why did you and Mr. Brainard quarrel last night?" he asked.

"Quarrel?" Millicent stared at him, then[63] laughed a bit unsteadily. "Mr. Brainard and I quarrel—what nonsense! Who put such an idea in your head, sir?"

"Your footman, Murray, has testified that he overheard you exclaim, ‘No! No!’ on the portico there," pointing to the long windows. "And after you had dashed by him into the house Murray found Mr. Brainard lying overcome on the ground."

Millicent never removed her eyes from the coroner; she seemed drinking in his words, half unable to believe them.

"Murray saw us?" she stammered, half to herself. "I had no idea others were about." Abruptly she checked her hasty speech, and her determined chin set in obstinate lines. "Apparently you know everything that transpired last night. Then why question me?" she demanded.

"We do not know everything," replied Coroner Black patiently. "For instance, we do not know who murdered Bruce Brainard."

His words struck home. She reeled in her seat, and but for Thorne’s supporting arm would have fallen to the floor.

"Murdered!" she gasped. "Murdered? You must be mistaken."

[64]"Unfortunately, Miss Porter, the medical evidence proves conclusively that it was murder and not suicide. Now," continued Black, eying her watchfully, "we want your aid in tracking the murderer—"

"I know nothing—nothing!" she burst in passionately. "I never saw Mr. Brainard again after he went upstairs; I slept soundly all last night, and heard nothing."

"Even if you know nothing about the happenings last night, perhaps you can still tell us something which may prove a clue," began Black, and his manner grew more earnest. "Did Mr. Brainard ever tell you that he had enemies?"

"No."

"Did he ever mention that his life had been threatened?" persisted Black.

"No." Millicent was white to the lips, and she held out her hands pleadingly. "Indeed, gentlemen, I cannot help you—why ask me questions that I cannot answer?"

The big, raw-boned foreman of the jury met her eyes and moved awkwardly, but before he could think what to say Coroner Black again addressed her.

"There are certain formalities to be gone[65] through, Miss Porter." As he spoke he walked over to the center table and picked up the blood-stained razor, holding it directly under the rays of the nearest lamp. "Kindly look at this razor and tell us if you know to whom it belongs."

If the razor had been Medusa’s head it could have held no more deadly fascination for Millicent. She sat as if carved from stone. Coroner Black repeated his question once, and then again—still no response.

Beverly Thorne broke the tense stillness.

"Did Dr. Noyes bid you good-by before departing, Miss Porter?" he asked.

Galvanized into action, Millicent sprang from her seat, and, before anyone guessed her intention or any hand could stay her, she dashed from the library.

Coroner Black made a hasty step toward the door, but Thorne detained him.

"Suppose you sum up the case to the jury," he suggested, and resumed his seat.

[66]
CHAPTER V
DOROTHY DEANE, "SOCIETY EDITOR"
"GOOD AFTERNOON, Mr. Williams." The managing editor of the Washington Tribune twisted about in his revolving-chair, and his frown changed into a smile of welcome at sight of his society editor standing in the doorway, a roll of soiled copy clutched in one hand, while a much blue-penciled daily newspaper dangled from the other.

"Come in, Miss Deane," he said, pointing toward a chair by his desk. "How are you feeling today after last night’s gayety at the White House?"

"Rather wintry, thank you." A twinkle in Dorothy Deane’s eyes belied her serious expression. "Your compositors spoiled my beauty sleep."

"What’s their latest offense?"

"This—" She spread the morning newspaper before him, and pointed to a paragraph in the middle of the second column, beneath[67] the sub-heading: "Beauty at the White House." The sentence read: "Mrs. Anson Smith, wife of Senator-elect Smith, wore a handsome string of pearls."

"Beauty unadorned," quoted the managing editor dryly. "Your description would fit nine out of ten women of the ultra-smart set of today."

"But it is not my description," retorted Dorothy hotly. "Here’s my copy, perfectly legible," displaying it. "The compositors simply did not set up the remainder of the sentence. If you could have heard Mr. Smith’s language to me on the telephone this morning—"

"The irate husband, eh!" Williams laughed unsympathetically. "Mrs. Smith must have had a gown made especially for the occasion—"

"She did, and sent me a full description of it yesterday—"

"And it did not get published—ah, take it from me, Miss Deane, that’s where the shoe pinched."

"Possibly; but that doesn’t excuse the blunder in the composing-room or the stupidity of the men on the copy desk," declared[68] Dorothy. "I have to stand for their mistakes."

Williams frowned, then smiled. "They will read your copy more carefully in the future, I promise you," he said. "I never saw you angry before, Miss Deane; now you look like the picture I have of you."

"Picture?" Dorothy’s blue eyes opened to their widest extent. "You have a picture of me?"

"Your emphasis is not very flattering," responded Williams, chuckling. "Our staff photographer snapped you and your sister one day last autumn, and I found the boys were going to run the picture in a Sunday supplement to surprise you. I didn’t think you’d like it, so took it away from them." As he spoke he opened a drawer of his desk and, tumbling its contents about, finally pulled out a photograph. "I meant to have given it to you before."

"Thanks," and Dorothy glanced at the photograph with interest as she took it.

"What were you two squabbling about?" demanded Williams, staring at the photograph. "Your sister looks a veritable Lady Macbeth."

[69]"Oh, she doesn’t approve of my spendthrift ways," answered Dorothy lightly. "Vera says I never will learn by experience," and an involuntary sigh escaped her.

"It’s a shame she lectured you in public," grumbled Williams, whose friendly interest in Dorothy’s career had already smoothed many rough places.

"Oh, I don’t know—couldn’t find a more convenient place than the steps of the Emergency Hospital to receive the coup de grâce," laughed Dorothy. "And Vera doesn’t mean half she says."

"By the way, didn’t you once tell me that your sister was nursing Craig Porter at their country place in Virginia?"

"Yes, she is."

Williams gazed at her with quickened interest. "Seen the afternoon papers?" he asked.

"No, I haven’t had time." The imperative ring of the telephone interrupted her, and Williams, waving an impatient hand in farewell, jerked the desk telephone toward him.

Still holding her photograph, but leaving her copy and the morning paper behind on the desk, Dorothy closed the door of the private[70] office, made her way through the city room, borrowed an afternoon newspaper from several lying on the city editor’s desk, and disappeared into the small room set aside for her exclusive use. She was some minutes placing her hat, coat, and handbag on their accustomed peg, then ensconcing herself before her desk she sorted her mail; that done, she picked up the photograph given her by the managing editor and studied it more closely.

The photograph was, like many an unposed snapshot, a good likeness; too good, she thought, noting her sister’s determined expression and her own rebellious countenance. For all her jesting with the managing editor, the conversation she and Vera had had that autumn afternoon lingered in her memory with a bitter flavor; remarks had been made which neither could forget.

Dorothy turned over the photograph and read with a wry smile the "legend" pasted there:

Two members of famous family adopt professions—Left to right, Miss Vera and Miss Dorothy Deane, daughters of the late distinguished jurist, Stephen Deane, Chief Justice of the District Court of Appeals, desert the ballroom and pink teas for professional[71] life. Miss Vera Deane is a graduate trained nurse, while her younger sister has found her metier as a journalist, and ably conducts the society section of the Morning Tribune.

Tossing aside the photograph, Dorothy picked up the afternoon newspaper and was about to turn to the society page when she stopped, her attention arrested by a display heading:

BRUCE BRAINARD A SUICIDE

Kills Himself at Porter Homestead

The lines beneath were meager as to details, but Dorothy absorbed the printed words a dozen times before their whole meaning dawned upon her. At the end she drew a long, long breath. Bruce Brainard! His very name conjured up scenes she had prayed to forget; and now he was dead, a suicide. She raised her hands to her throbbing temples and burst into uncontrollable, hysterical laughter. Truly the Fates had a perverted sense of humor—to bring Bruce Brainard, Vera, and Hugh Wyndham together for a final meeting! Suddenly her laughter changed to tears, and noiseless sobs shook and racked her slender body until she sank back in her[72] chair exhausted with emotion. She was regaining some hold on her customary composure when the insistent clamor of her desk telephone effectually aroused her.

"Hello! Yes," she called into the instrument, steadying her voice. "Society editor, yes; no, we don’t take engagements over the ’phone— No, we can’t break the rule; sorry, but you will have to send it in signed, or bring the news in person. Good-by," and she rang off.

Her right hand instinctively sought her assignment book; the telephone message had brought her back to the everyday routine; she could not permit her thoughts to wander afield; but first there was one thing she must do, and she again turned to the telephone. It was some minutes before she got the toll station, and there she met disappointment—the telephone at the Porter homestead had been temporarily disconnected; she could not talk to her sister.

But why had not Vera telephoned her? The question worried her as she turned the pages of her book, searching for the entries falling on that date. Then she recalled that, after her talk with the indignant Mr. Anson[73] Smith that morning, she had covered her ears with the bedclothes and gone comfortably to sleep, letting the telephone ring itself out. The fact that she had been up all night "covering" the White House entertainment and had crawled into bed at twenty minutes past five in the morning did not, at the moment, seem an adequate excuse for having neglected the telephone—she had deliberately but unintentionally cut herself off from communication with Vera, and bitter tears came to her eyes at the thought. Vera might be needing her at that very moment! The thought was not quieting, and she had reached for her hat when again the telephone broke the silence.

"What is it?" she demanded, and her voice sounded shrill even in her own ears.

"Society editor," came a woman’s voice over the wire. "Please look in the Congressional Directory and tell me if Mr. John Graham is still a representative."

"What state is he from?" questioned Dorothy.

"I don’t recollect," was the reply, and with a subdued, "Wait a moment," Dorothy set down the receiver and feverishly turned the pages of the Congressional Directory until[74] she reached the index and ran down the list of names. "There’s no John Graham in the book," she shouted into the telephone a second later.

"Sure you have the last edition? Thanks."

Dorothy put back the receiver with a relieved sigh. A glance at her wrist watch showed her that it was already a quarter of five—and the foreman was waiting for early copy. There was no time to hunt up Vera, and with her nerves on edge she turned to her list of assignments and telephoned to first one hostess and then another, getting dinner and lunch lists until she had a formidable number before her. But one hostess remained uncalled, and with renewed zeal she resorted to the telephone again.

"This is Miss Deane, society editor, Morning Tribune," she explained. "I will be greatly obliged if you will give the names of your dinner guests tonight for tomorrow’s paper."

"I give dinners to my friends, not for the newspapers," came the frigid reply, and Dorothy heard the bang of the telephone receiver at the other end of the wire.

"Waugh!" she exclaimed aloud, turning[75] back to her typewriter. "So Mrs. Purse thinks she has arrived—and last year she was sending in her own dinner lists to the newspapers, as well as the names of guests at entertainments to which she was invited."

Dorothy’s skilled fingers flew over the typewriter as her active brain put in fitting phrases the information she had secured over the telephone, and later, in some instances, she rewrote the important social events chronicled in the evening newspapers. She had almost completed her task when the door opened and the office boy ushered in a much-talked-about divorcee whose career had provided entertainment for staid Washingtonians.

Dorothy was a favorite of hers and she greeted her warmly. "No, I can’t sit and gossip," she announced, standing by the partly open door. "I only came to bring you this data about our dramatic club," laying a folded manuscript on the desk perilously near the paste pot. "Dress it up in your own style, Dorothy. I congratulate you on your society column; it’s the best in town."

"Indeed," and Dorothy flushed with pleasure. "I did not think you would ever bother to read it."

[76]"I always read the social news to keep track of the entertainments to which I am not bidden given by women who owe me invitations." A faint hardness crept into her voice, and was gone instantly as she bade Dorothy a cordial good-by and departed.

Rewriting the dramatic club article proved more of a task than Dorothy had bargained for; thoughts of Vera, of Bruce Brainard, and last—of Hugh Wyndham, projected themselves before the typed words, and in desperation she seized the scissors and, shortening the manuscript, she pasted the remainder on her copy paper. She was busy marking her copy when the telephone bell called her back to the instrument.

"Good evening, Miss Deane," said a soft, purring voice, which Dorothy instantly recognized as belonging to a well-known society belle, who had seen more seasons than she was willing to admit. "For particular reasons I am anxious to attend the breakfast tomorrow which the Japanese Ambassador is giving. Can’t you use your influence to get me an invitation?"

"But I have no influence in that quarter," protested Dorothy. "The invitations are[77] strictly limited to members of the Cabinet and their wives."

"Oh! Don’t you know any way by which I can procure an invitation?"

"I see no way for you to be eligible for an invitation unless you can marry the Attorney General, the only bachelor in the Cabinet circle, before ten o’clock," retorted Dorothy, her sense of fun getting the better of discretion. A faint "Oh!" preceded the hanging up of the opposite receiver, and Dorothy went back to her work. But she was again doomed to interruption, and this time she answered the telephone with a wrathful, "Well, what is it?"

"Mrs. Marvin, Dorothy," sounded a cheerful voice. "I want you to take down this list of patronesses for our charity ball. Get your pencil—there are one hundred names."

"Oh, Mrs. Marvin!" gasped Dorothy. "Can’t you send them into the office? I’ll pay the messenger."

"I haven’t time to write them out," declared Mrs. Marvin firmly, and Dorothy jabbed her pencil with vicious force into the pad as she started to take down the names. "Hello, don’t ring off," called Mrs. Marvin at the end of five minutes. "Remember,[78] Dorothy, those names must appear in tomorrow’s paper, and be sure and give us an excellent send-off; it’s for charity, you know."

"Yes, yes, good-by," and, dropping the receiver, Dorothy rubbed her aching ear and stiff arm.

"Taking one consideration with another, with another,
A policeman’s life is not a happy one—"
chanted a voice from the door, and, glancing up, Dorothy saw one of the reporters watching her. "Cheer up, Miss Deane," he said, advancing farther into the room. "You haven’t been standing on the ‘sacred soil’ of Virginia for hours in a biting east wind, watching a front door for news. I’m frozen inside and out," blowing on his hands as he spoke. "But, oh, it’s a big story—"

At the mention of Virginia, Dorothy had glanced at him eagerly, but the question burning her lips was checked by the telephone’s loud call.

"Do answer it for me," she begged, sitting down at her typewriter. "Say I’m busy," in frenzied desperation; "say I’m dead!" And paying no further attention to her companion she commenced her story about the charity ball. Tom Seaton’s voice interrupted her.

[79]"The lady wants to know if she can give a dance on January 20th without butting in on a dozen parties that night," he explained, hugging the receiver against his chest.

Dorothy hunted up the date in her assignment book, and slammed it shut with vigor.

"Tell her there are only seven dinners scheduled so far for that night," she directed, and in the moment’s respite she copied off the names of the charity ball patronesses. She had completed her task when Seaton replaced the telephone, and straddled the only other chair in the room.

Usually Dorothy did not encourage loiterers, and had sometimes given offense by her abrupt refusal to stand around and gossip; but she was never too busy to listen to a hard-luck story, and her ready sympathy for human frailty had gained her a warm place in the regard of her happy-go-lucky co-workers on the paper.

"Have you been out to the Porter homestead?" she inquired, handing her mass of corrected copy to a begrimed messenger from the composing-room who appeared at that instant.

"I have; and I can’t speak highly of the hospitable instincts of the owners of Dewdrop[80] Inn," answered Seaton. "This little ‘dewdrop’ was positively congealed while waiting for the inquest to adjourn."

"An inquest!" echoed Dorothy. "Did they hold it so soon?"

"They did, and never had the decency to let us in. Every paper was represented, and we had to cool our heels until the coroner came out and announced—"

"Miss Deane"—the office boy poked his head inside the door—"the ‘boss’ wants ye."

"In a minute." Dorothy rose and turned breathlessly to Seaton. "What did the coroner announce?"

"He said that evidence, brought out at the inquest, proved conclusively that Bruce Brainard was murdered, and—"

Murdered! Dorothy stared at him aghast. Dimly she realized that he was still speaking, but his words were meaningless. Bruce Brainard murdered—and under the same roof with her sister, Vera—and Hugh Wyndham! Something snapped inside her brain; she felt herself going, and threw out her hands hopelessly—

"Hully gee! Help, boys!" roared Seaton, bending over her. "She’s fainted."

[81]
CHAPTER VI
THE WALL BETWEEN
VERA DEANE scanned the handsomely appointed dinner table and its vacant places with mixed feelings, and Murray, hovering solicitously behind her chair, answered her unspoken thought.

"Mrs. Porter and Miss Millicent are taking dinner in their boudoir," he explained. "Selby is serving them, and Mrs. Porter gave most particular orders that you should have a good dinner, Miss Deane."

"I don’t believe I can eat," protested Vera, declining bread and butter. "I have no appetite tonight."

"Just try this soup, miss," coaxed Murray. "It’s one of cook’s specialties. And you know, miss," added Murray artfully, setting the plate with its smoking contents before her, "what with one thing and another, they’ve given you no rest today, and Dr. Noyes always said humans must eat to keep their machinery going."

[82]"Quite true," smiled Vera. Murray was a favorite of hers, and his extreme loquaciousness often amused her. The footman was too well trained to overstep the gulf lying between their positions; he had been told off to wait upon the nurses and assist them in their care of Craig Porter on the latter’s arrival from France, and, having a natural aptitude for caring for the sick, they found him extremely useful.

Vera had not been slow in discovering Murray’s one hobby, a hobby which, seven years before, had almost cost him his place, Mrs. Porter not having taken kindly to his lugubrious countenance and depressed manner when waiting upon the table. She expressed her feelings to his former employer, a friend of long standing, who responded impressively: "My dear, Murray’s an excellent servant, with one little weakness—his health. The more certain he is that he suffers from a mortal disease, the more enjoyment he gets out of life. Just ask him now and then, ‘Murray, how are you feeling?’ and he will be your slave."

Mrs. Porter had promptly followed the advice, and whenever she found the footman looking preternaturally solemn had cheered[83] him immensely by inquiring for his health. Both Nurse Hall and Vera Deane had quickly discovered his hobby, and the younger nurse had advanced in his esteem by listening patiently to descriptions of every new symptom his fancy conjured up. The fact that he failed lamentably in the proper use of medical and anatomical terms never disturbed him—his last confidence to Dr. Noyes having been that he was suffering from inflammation of the semicolon.

Vera found Murray’s opinion of the excellence of the soup justified, and ate the remainder of the dinner with more zest than she had imagined possible an hour before. The relief of being alone was an additional fillip to her jaded nerves. Upon being excused from the inquest that afternoon she had gone at once to the branch telephone in Mrs. Porter’s boudoir, only to find that the instrument had been disconnected and that she could not communicate with her sister Dorothy. She had then returned to Craig Porter’s bedroom, and in trying to satisfy Mrs. Hall’s insatiable curiosity as to what had transpired at the inquest she had had no time to herself before dinner was announced.

[84]"No coffee tonight, Murray," she said, pushing back her chair. "I am going upstairs to Mr. Porter, so that Mrs. Hall can have her dinner immediately."

"Mrs. Hall had tea earlier in the afternoon," was Murray’s unexpected response. "She told me that Mrs. Porter had given her permission to spend the night in Washington."

"Oh!" Vera’s expression was blank. "Is Mrs. Porter sending her into town?"

"No, miss; Mr. Hugh took the car just after the inquest adjourned and hasn’t returned yet. I hear tell"—Murray paused, dessert dish in hand—"that Mrs. Hall arranged with one of the ’tecs to have a taxi sent out from the city for her." And without more ado he disappeared into the pantry.

Vera was a trifle out of breath when she entered Craig Porter’s bedroom. Mrs. Hall, chart in hand, was standing by the mahogany desk, and her face cleared at sight of Vera.

"Why didn’t you let me know you wished to go off duty a little earlier?" asked Vera reproachfully. "I would have hurried back—"

"Because I knew it would rest you to have your dinner in peace and quiet. I have arranged Mr. Porter for the night and given[85] him his nourishment. All you have to do is to follow the doctor’s directions; they are pinned to the chart."

"Of course I will follow the doctor’s orders," responded Vera, much offended by her companion’s manner as well as her words, "I will obey instructions as I have done heretofore."

Mrs. Hall looked at her oddly, a look which Vera missed as she crossed the room to arrange the window blinds.

"Are you nervous about staying up alone next to that—?" asked Mrs. Hall, and a turn of her head indicated the room occupied by Bruce Brainard the night before.

"Not in the least," answered Vera; she was having some difficulty in closing the heavy outside blinds and her voice was somewhat muffled. She jerked her head inside the room again and closed the window. "There is a motor car coming up the drive—it looks like a taxi."

"It’s probably for me." And Mrs. Hall disappeared into the dressing-room which connected Craig Porter’s bedroom and the room which she and Vera shared.

Left to herself Vera went thoughtfully over[86] to the desk. She was still writing when Mrs. Hall reappeared, bag in hand.

"Will you please mail this letter for me in the city?" asked Vera. "I won’t be a moment finishing it."

"You’ll find blotting-paper in the lower desk drawer," announced Mrs. Hall, stopping to button her heavy coat up about her throat. "It wastes time blowing on the ink." Vera reddened. "If it is only a note to your sister, why not give me a verbal message?"

Vera’s color deepened. "I prefer to write," she answered stiffly.

"As you wish; I only made the suggestion to save time," and Mrs. Hall glanced significantly at the clock.

Vera’s hot temper got the upper hand. "On second thought, I’ll not detain you longer," she said, and her long, slender fingers made mince-meat of the letter she had been writing. With a mumbled "good night," Mrs. Hall left the room, and, turning, Vera stared contemplatively at the door. What had come over her companion? It was not like Mrs. Hall to be so cantankerous.

Vera spent the next hour in performing her accustomed duties, and when she finally took[87] her seat near the shaded night light she was conscious of utter weariness, a weariness more akin to mental exhaustion than she had known in many months—the day’s horrors were telling upon her, and her mental state was reacting upon her physical strength. A footstep outside the partly open hall door caused her to hasten across the room as Murray appeared, tray in hand.

"Cook sent some broth tonight as well as the sandwiches," he said, lowering his voice as he tiptoed into the room and placed the tray on a side table. "She thought you would like to have something hot in the early morning, and I put the broth in the thermos bottle."

"That was very kind and thoughtful of you both," exclaimed Vera gratefully. "Please thank cook for me."

"Yes, miss." Murray tiptoed over to the bed and looked at Craig Porter, who lay with his eyes closed, his face matching the sheets in whiteness. The almost imperceptible rise and fall of his chest was the only indication that life still lingered in the palsied body. Shaking his head, Murray retreated to the hall door.

"I’m thinking the young master’s health[88] will have a setback, now Dr. Noyes has gone," he said sorrowfully. "And he was improving so finely."

"We are keeping up the same treatment," replied Vera. "Good night, Murray, and thank you."

Pausing only long enough to see if her patient required attention, Vera returned to her chair, and in its comfortable, upholstered depths her tired muscles relaxed, and she half lay, half sat at ease and surveyed her surroundings. The room and its furnishings were well worth a second look, but an attraction which Vera was powerless to conquer drew her eyes to the transom in the wall separating the room she sat in and the one which had harbored the grim tragedy of the night before.

In her excited state of mind she half expected to see the same faint light appear through the transom which had shone there twenty-odd hours before, but the darkness in the next room was unrelieved. However, even the patch of darkness gave full play to her morbid fancies, and with a shudder she turned her head away—to find Mrs. Porter standing by her side. Too startled to move she gazed in amazement at her employer.

[89]"I slipped in through your bedroom so as not to disturb Craig," explained Mrs. Porter, in a subdued tone. "The other door lets in so much light from the hall when opened. I have something to say to you—"

"Yes, Mrs. Porter." Vera was on her feet. "Will you sit here, or shall we—"

"Is Craig asleep?"

Vera moved over to the bed and bent over her patient, then returned.

"Yes, he is still slumbering," she announced.

"Then I will sit here." Mrs. Porter pulled forward a companion chair to the one Vera had vacated. "If we speak low our voices cannot disturb Craig in this large room. How is he tonight?"

Vera hesitated, and Mrs. Porter, her eyes sharpened by love, saw it even in the dim night light, and one hand went to her heart.

"I really think Mr. Porter is the same," answered Vera hastily. "I see—no change."

A heavy sigh broke from Mrs. Porter. "Why couldn’t Alan Noyes have stayed?" she moaned. "Why such mad haste? I would have paid him any price—done anything, in and out of reason, to insure my boy having his skilled medical attendance. And now—"

[90]Never before had Vera seen Mrs. Porter’s composure shaken, and as she looked at her grief-stricken face a compassion and understanding of the woman she had deemed all-worldly moved her. Impulsively she extended her hands in ready sympathy, and Mrs. Porter clasped them eagerly.

"Don’t borrow trouble, dear Mrs. Porter," she entreated. "Dr. Washburn stands very high in the profession—"

"But he can’t come." Mrs. Porter dashed tears from her eyes. "He has just sent word that he is ill with pleurisy, and recommends that I send for Dr. Beverly Thorne."

"What?" Vera studied her intently. "Will you follow Dr. Washburn’s advice?"

"And send for Beverly Thorne?" with bitter emphasis. "I wouldn’t have that man attend a sick cat! Oh, why didn’t I close this house and go back to the city?"

Vera was discreetly silent. Mrs. Porter had carried her point of wintering in the country against the, at first, outspoken indignation of Millicent and the veiled opposition of Hugh Wyndham; but that was hardly the moment to remind Mrs. Porter that by having her own way she had herself to thank[91] for their isolated position. Mrs. Porter continued her remarks, heedless of Vera’s silence. "And poor Millicent is cut off from young companionship just at the moment when she needs her friends. By the way"—bending eagerly forward—"can’t your sister come and stay with Millicent?"

"Dorothy—stay here?" Vera half rose, her eyes dilating.

"Why not?" demanded Mrs. Porter. "The two girls were chums at boarding-school, even if they haven’t seen much of each other for several years, and I imagine you know Hugh’s opinion of Dorothy—" Vera nodded dumbly. "I’ve always been very fond of Dorothy, and I can’t understand, Vera, why you permitted her to go into newspaper work," in reproachful accents.

"Dorothy is old enough now to judge for herself," said Vera wearily. "She selected newspaper work for various reasons, and I must say," with quick pride, "Dorothy has done well in that profession."

"I know she has, and I admire her for it." Mrs. Porter spoke warmly, and Vera colored with pleasure. "Do put your clever wits to work, Vera, and arrange it so that Dorothy[92] can get leave from her office and spend a week here at the least. Her cheerful society will do Millicent good. I wish, my dear, that I could see more of you," and Mrs. Porter impulsively kissed her. "But you sleep all day and work all night, and I sleep all night." She rose abruptly. "I must go back to Millicent; the child is grieving her heart out." She made a hesitating step toward the door leading into Vera’s bedroom. "Did you mention in your testimony at the inquest this afternoon that you saw Millicent down in the library when you went to telephone to the coroner?"

"No." Vera caught the look of relief which lighted Mrs. Porter’s eyes for a brief instant, then the older woman continued on her way to the door, but she stopped again on its threshold.

"Do you know what became of the key to the next room after they removed Mr. Brainard’s body to the morgue in Alexandria?" she asked.

"No, I was asleep at that hour." Vera came nearer. "Is the bedroom locked?"

"Yes. I suppose the police—" Mrs. Porter’s voice trailed off, then she added, "Good night," and was gone.

Vera went thoughtfully over to the bedside[93] and, seeing that Craig Porter still slept, she moved over to the desk and, picking up a pad and pencil, tried to reduce her ideas to writing. The words repeated to her by Mrs. Hall, who had been told the jury’s verdict by the coroner, recurred to her:

"We find that Bruce Brainard came to his death while spending the night at the residence of Mrs. Lawrence Porter, between the hours of two and five in the morning of January 8th, from the severing of the carotid artery in his throat, and from the nature of the wound and other evidence produced here we find that he was foully murdered by a party or parties unknown."

"By a party unknown," Vera murmured, dashing her pencil through the words she had scrawled on her pad. "But how long will the ‘party’ remain ‘unknown’— Merciful God! If there was only someone I could turn to!" and she wrung her hands as she gazed despairingly at the desk calendar.

A low tap at the hall door aroused her and, hastening across the room, she looked into the hall. Murray was standing by the door.

"Your sister is out on the portico, miss," he announced in a low voice.

[94]"Dorothy—here—at this hour?" Vera looked at the footman in amazement.

"It isn’t so very late, miss, not yet eleven," explained Murray. "I asked Miss Dorothy in, but she said she didn’t wish to disturb anyone; only wanted a word with you."

Vera viewed the footman in silence, then came to a sudden decision. "Very well, I will go downstairs. You remain with Mr. Porter, Murray, until I return."

"Yes, miss." And Murray, waiting respectfully for her to step into the hall, entered the bedroom and closed the door.

On reaching the front hall Vera paused long enough to slip on Millicent Porter’s sport coat which was hanging from the hat stand, and, putting up the latch, she walked out on the portico, and stopped abruptly on finding herself alone. A low hail from a taxi standing a slight distance down the driveway caused her to look in that direction, and she saw Dorothy’s face at its window. A second more and she stood by the taxi door, held invitingly open by Dorothy.

"Are you mad, Dorothy?" she demanded, keeping her voice lowered in spite of her anger. "To come out here at this hour of the night!"

[95]"It’s perfectly all right," retorted Dorothy. "William, our old coachman, brought me out in his taxi," pointing to a man in chauffeur’s livery who stood some little distance away. "Did you think I could stay away, Vera, when I heard—"

"What have you heard?" The question shot from Vera.

"That you found Bruce with his throat cut—" Dorothy drew in her breath sharply. "I never dreamed he would kill himself—"

"The coroner’s jury called it murder," said Vera dully.

"Whom do they suspect?" gasped Dorothy.

"I imagine Dr. Noyes."

"Dr. Noyes!" in profound astonishment. "Why?"

"Chiefly because of his sudden departure without bidding anyone good-by."

"But—but—the motive? Heavens! Did he know Bruce?" And Vera leaned forward from the taxi, so that the moonlight fell full on her face.

"He met him last night," with dry emphasis, and Dorothy moved restlessly. "Listen, Dorothy, I can stay but a moment longer. If you should be questioned, remember that[96] at the inquest I did not mention that I had ever seen Bruce Brainard before last night, and that I have not confided to anyone in the Porter house that I ever heard of him before."

"But—but—Hugh knows."

"Hugh Wyndham!" Vera clutched the door of the car for support. "Did you tell him tonight?"

"No, I haven’t seen him for over a week. I—" But Vera did not give her time to finish her sentence.

"Dorothy, were you so foolish—my God! you didn’t mention names to Hugh?"

Her sister nodded dumbly.

From one of the leafless trees far down the lawn an owl hooted derisively as a light footstep crunched the gravel just behind Vera, and she swung quickly about. The front door of the house was wide open and a stream of light illuminated the portico.

Millicent Porter, approaching nearer, recognized Vera and her sister, and darted to the side of the car with a glad cry of welcome.

"Dorothy, you’ve come!" she exclaimed, seizing her hands. "I told Hugh not to return without you."

Dorothy glanced in speechless surprise from[97] Vera to Millicent, then back, almost pleadingly, to her sister. Vera’s face was set and stern.

"Yes, Millicent," she said quietly. "Dorothy has come to spend the ni—" she stumbled in her speech—"several days," she amended.

[98]
CHAPTER VII
AT THORNEDALE LODGE
AROW of beautiful trees ran the length of Thornedale Lodge, facing the entrance on the south. They had been planted generations before, and, no allowance made for their increase in height and circumference, towering above the old house, they were landmarks for miles around. Their branches touched the galleries and windows, and in summer their foliage shut out much light and sunshine, but Beverly Thorne scoffed at the idea of dampness and refused to cut down the trees, as his father had refused before him. The stars in their constellation were not more fixed than the customs which had obtained in the old Virginia home.

Beverly Thorne crossed the lawn and entered his house, and an anxious-faced negro butler, grown gray in service, came forward to meet him.

"Yo’ breakfas’ am served, sah," he announced,[99] and his soft drawling voice contained a note of reproach. "I done looked ober de whole house fo’ yo’, an’ de things am gettin’ cold."

"Sorry, Cato." Thorne preceded the old servant into the dining-room, but instead of approaching the table he stopped before a window overlooking the sloping ground and a distant view of the Porter homestead, Dewdrop Inn. "See that man, Cato, loitering near the lodge gate?" he asked, and Cato peered over his shoulder. "Send Julius to him. Wait," as Cato moved away. "Tell Julius to say that Dr. Thorne presents his compliments and asks Detective Mitchell to come here and have a cup of coffee with him."

"Yessir." And Cato went to execute the errand, while Thorne waited until he saw the small negro boy who assisted Cato in tending the grounds cross the back lawn, then turned away from the window.

Walking over to the table he picked up a folded newspaper by his plate and used it as a shield as he drew a photograph from his inside coat pocket. The picture was irregular in shape and small in size, and had evidently been cut from a group photograph, for the two[100] figures on either side of Vera Deane had been partly decapitated by scissors. Vera and her companions were in their nurses’ costume and carried diplomas. It was an excellent likeness of Vera, her pose was natural and her fresh young beauty and fearless eyes claimed the attention of the most casual. Thorne knew every light and shade in the photograph.

"To think she threw away her happiness, her career, for—" he muttered, and his hand clenched in impotent wrath, then, becoming aware of the negro butler’s return, he replaced the photograph in his pocket, and soon became absorbed in the newspaper. Cato, considerably annoyed by the prospect of further delay in serving breakfast, arranged another place at the table with more alacrity than his rheumatic joints usually permitted. He had no more than finished when Detective Mitchell appeared in the side door, ushered in by the grinning boy. Throwing down his paper, Thorne greeted the detective heartily.

"Very good of you to share my breakfast," he said, pouring out a steaming cup of coffee as Mitchell took possession of the chair pulled out for him by Cato.

"You are the good Samaritan, doctor,"[101] declared Mitchell, rubbing his chilled hands. "The Porter place gets the full force of the wind; you are more sheltered here," glancing out of the diamond-paned windows, and then back again at his host and the cosy dining-room with its blazing logs in the large stone fireplace at the farther end.

The somewhat shabby old furniture, the wide sideboard on which stood quaint glass candelabra and heavy cut-glass decanters and dishes of the generous proportions of former decades, a table in the window littered with magazines and books, and near at hand a mahogany stand equipped with a smoking outfit, all seemed to blend with the low time-stained oak beams and wainscoted walls. No curtains hung in the windows, and the winter sunshine streamed in, betraying here and there in cracks and crannies small accumulations of dust which Cato’s old eyes had passed unseen.

Thorne observed which way his guest’s attention was straying and smiled, well pleased; he was proud of the historic old house. "This is one of the pleasantest rooms," he said, pushing the toast rack near the detective. "Try some toast; it’s hot."

"Thanks." Mitchell enjoyed his breakfast[102] for a few minutes in silence. "Is this house older than the Porter mansion?"

"Same age; in fact my great-great-grandfather built them both," answered Thorne. "But this was only a hunting lodge, while the Porter homestead was a mansion house, and is pure Georgian in architecture."

"It’s the best-looking house in this country," affirmed Mitchell enthusiastically. "Pity to have a gruesome crime committed inside its old walls."

"You are sure it was a crime?" asked Thorne, stirring his coffee and then sipping it gingerly. "A murder?"

Mitchell stared at him in surprise. "Of course I’m sure that it was a murder. Didn’t the medical evidence prove that the wound could not have been self-inflicted?"

"The deputy coroner gave that as his belief, with one reservation—the wound could have been self-inflicted if Bruce Brainard was left-handed."

"Which he wasn’t," declared Mitchell positively. "I have questioned all who knew Brainard, and they swear he was right-handed. So there you are, doctor, with a case of proven murder."

[103]Thorne laid down a fresh piece of toast untasted on his plate. "I take exception to Deputy Coroner McPherson’s theory that the wound from its appearance could not have been self-inflicted," he announced slowly. "Any surgeon will tell you that it is next to impossible to tell with any degree of accuracy at exactly which point the razor first entered the flesh. Brainard might have gashed himself by holding the razor in his right hand with the full intention of committing suicide, and opened the carotid artery. In that way he could have inflicted just such a wound as killed him."

Mitchell moved impatiently. "Why didn’t you mention that at the inquest?" he grumbled.

"Because I was not called as a witness."

The detective ruminated silently for some moments, casting frequent glances at his host.

"Well, perhaps an expert can tear the medical evidence to pieces at the trial, but there’s one point you overlook, doctor," he argued. "But if it was suicide, where did Brainard get the razor? Everyone admits, including Mrs. Porter, that he had not expected[104] to spend the night, and he did not bring a pair of pyjamas; only had the clothes on his back, a dress suit. Mr. Wyndham admitted in the presence of the coroner yesterday that Mr. Brainard did not see his overcoat after he was taken ill, and Murray, the footman, states that it hung in the coat closet until I took it down to examine it." Mitchell paused and added impressively: "I’ll stake my reputation that Brainard had no razor when he was put to bed, therefore he could not have committed suicide. He was murdered by someone inside the house."

"No one in the Porter household admits having seen that razor before," was Thorne’s only comment.

"Sure, they ain’t going to give each other away."

Thorne straightened up and looked at the detective. "Do you mean to imply a conspiracy?"

"No, not a conspiracy to kill Brainard," Mitchell hastened to explain. "Only an endeavor on the part of Mrs. Porter and her daughter, Millicent, to shield the guilty man."

Thorne reached over and rang the small silver bell, then replaced it on the table.[105] "More coffee, Cato," he directed, and turned again to Mitchell as the servant disappeared with the pot. "And who is the guilty man?"

"Frankly, I’m not quite sure," admitted Mitchell, grinning. "But as there are only two men in the house, not counting the butler, footman, chauffeur, and two gardeners, I hardly anticipate difficulty in narrowing the hunt down to one."

"And the two men are—"

"Dr. Alan Noyes and Hugh Wyndham."

Thorne opened his cigar-case and offered it to Mitchell, then helped himself and placed a box of matches on an ash-tray conveniently before his guest.

"Dr. Alan Noyes and Hugh Wyndham," he repeated thoughtfully. "Mitchell, you have overlooked a member of the family in your list."

"You mean—?" The detective looked puzzled.

"Craig Porter."

Mitchell laughed outright. "Have you seen him?"

"No."

"Why, doctor, he’s paralyzed, can’t move[106] hand or foot." Mitchell puffed contentedly at his cigar. "I was in his bedroom yesterday afternoon and got a good look at him while I was chatting with Mrs. Hall, the other nurse. I don’t think Porter will live very long, poor devil," he added. "Fine-looking chap; must have been some athlete, from all accounts."

"Yes," agreed Thorne, moving his plate aside to make room for the fresh pot of coffee which Cato brought in at that moment. "Let me give you a hot cup, Mitchell; there, that’s better. What were you going to ask me?" observing that his companion hesitated.

"Can you give me any pointers about this Dr. Alan Noyes and Hugh Wyndham?" asked Mitchell. "They are your next-door neighbors, so to speak."

"And I never crossed their threshold until yesterday," responded Thorne dryly. "A family feud of long standing, Mitchell, and if I were the devil with horns, Mrs. Porter couldn’t regard me with more horror." A boyish smile touched his stern lips and his gray eyes twinkled.

Mitchell glanced at him speculatively. There was little of the student in Thorne’s appearance; his bronzed cheeks and throat[107] spoke of out-of-doors, and his well-cut riding-clothes showed his tall, wiry figure to advantage. The faint crow’s feet under his eyes and the slight graying of his black hair at the temples gave an impression of a not too easy path in life, and Mitchell decided in his own mind that his host was between thirty-six and thirty-eight years of age.

"While I never talked to Mrs. Porter until yesterday, Mitchell," continued Thorne, laying down the stub of his cigar, "I’ve had a slight acquaintance with Wyndham, and one not calculated to make me popular with him."

"How’s that, doctor?"

"Oh, in my capacity of justice of the peace I’ve had to fine him for speeding," responded Thorne. "I believe Noyes was with him on one of these occasions, but he stayed out in the motor car."

"I wonder whose motor Noyes used to leave the Porters’ early yesterday morning," mused Mitchell. "Pshaw! there’s little use in speculating along that line. We’ve proved his alibi was true."

"Indeed? You mean—"

"That a cipher cablegram was telephoned out to him from New York yesterday morning[108] between two and three, and if Mrs. Porter’s testimony is to be relied on—and I see no reason to doubt it now—Noyes must have made straight for New York and is aboard the S. S. St. Louis, of the American Line. She sailed for Liverpool, and I’ve wirelessed out, but haven’t received an answer from the ship."

"So that clears Noyes," commented Thorne.

"Yes, I suppose it does," but Mitchell’s tone was doubtful. "It doesn’t explain Miss Millicent Porter’s curious behavior at the inquest. Judging by her manner and her testimony, she believes Noyes guilty."

"Miss Porter was in a very hysterical state, hardly accountable for her actions." Thorne paused and examined his nicotine-stained fingers with interest. "Have you unearthed any evidence against Hugh Wyndham?"

"Well"—Mitchell hesitated, and shot a sidelong glance at his host—"nothing tangible against him—but if we eliminate Noyes it’s got to be Wyndham."

Before answering, Thorne refilled his coffee-cup. "Wyndham—or an outsider," he said.

[109]"Not a chance of the latter." Mitchell spoke with absolute confidence. "I’ve examined every lock and bolt on the doors and windows; not one is broken or out of order, and both the butler and footman declare all windows and doors were locked on the ground floor yesterday morning as usual. Take it from me, doctor, no one broke into that house to murder Brainard. No one except the dinner guests and Mrs. Porter’s household knew Brainard was spending the night there. I tell you," emphasizing his words by striking the table with his clenched fist, "it was an inside job."

"It would seem so," acknowledged Thorne, who had listened closely to Mitchell’s statement. "Were you at the Porters’ last night, Mitchell?"

"No, I had to go in to Washington, but I left Pope there, and I returned early this morning and sent Pope in to Alexandria to get some breakfast and bring me my share. He’s never appeared." Mitchell smiled ruefully. "But for you, doctor, I’d have fared badly. I greatly appreciate your hot breakfast," he added, as he rose somewhat awkwardly and pushed back his chair.

[110]Thorne was slower in rising from the table than his guest.

"Make this house your headquarters, Mitchell, while investigating Brainard’s murder," he suggested hospitably. "The nearest road-house is five miles away. Should you require a meal—a telephone—a quiet moment—come here."

The detective looked gratified. "Mighty thoughtful of you, sir," he said. "And I accept. The Porter house is out of the beaten track, and frankly—" He paused as they reached the large hall which did duty also as a living-room; at least such was the impression gained by Mitchell as he glanced inquiringly around, for the negro boy had taken him into the dining-room through a short passage leading from a side door, and he had not seen the front of the house before.

The staircase in the hall was partly concealed by the stone fireplace and huge chimney about which it was built; deep window seats, comfortable lounging-chairs, a few tables, tiger skins, and other fur rugs, added to the hall’s homelike, comfortable appearance, while guns, moose and deer heads and other hunting trophies hung on the walls.

[111]Suddenly Mitchell became conscious of his prolonged silence and that Thorne was waiting courteously for him to continue his remark.

"Frankly," he commenced again, "I think the mystery will be solved and the murderer apprehended within forty-eight hours. And in that case, doctor, I’ll not trespass long on your hospitality."

"Come over whenever you care to," exclaimed Thorne. "I’ll tell Cato to make you comfortable if I am not here."

"Thanks." Mitchell turned up the collar of his overcoat as Thorne opened the front door, and stood hesitating on the threshold. "Say, doctor," he suddenly burst out, "you were the first outside the Porter family to see Brainard yesterday morning—what struck you most forcibly about the affair?"

Thorne considered the question. "The composure of Nurse Deane," he said finally. "The young woman who said she was the first to discover the crime."

Mitchell stared at him open-mouthed. "What do you mean?" he demanded.

"It is an unheard of thing for a first-class trained nurse to sleep at her post." Thorne[112] spoke slowly, carefully. "And the transom between the two bedrooms was open."

"But it is over Craig Porter’s bed," objected Mitchell. "And Nurse Deane couldn’t have looked through the transom without climbing up on his bed."

"I grant you she could not have looked through the transom," answered Thorne. "But she could hear. The slightest sound becomes ‘noise’ at dead of night."

Mitchell’s eyes grew bigger and bigger. "Then you think—"

"That Nurse Deane both heard the murder committed and investigated it long before she went to summon Hugh Wyndham—and in that interval she had time to partially recover from shock and exert her self-control which, for a girl of her years, appears little short of marvelous."

There was a brief silence which Mitchell broke.

"You’ve given me a new viewpoint," he said. "So you think Nurse Deane is an accessory after the fact?"

"Possibly—through sympathy."

Mitchell whistled. "Not to say affection, eh, doctor?" But Thorne was looking through[113] the open door and failed to catch Mitchell’s suggestive wink. Mitchell moved briskly across the paved walk which led from the front door to the box-hedged garden in front of the house. "I’ll let you know what the third degree brings forth, doctor," he called over his shoulder and hurried up the walk.

[114]
CHAPTER VIII
MANY INVENTIONS
DOROTHY DEANE laid aside the muffler she had been pretending to knit and stared intently at Millicent who lay stretched out on the lounge in Mrs. Porter’s pretty boudoir. Millicent was certainly asleep at last, but Dorothy waited several more minutes before rising cautiously and stretching her stiff muscles. It seemed hours since she had breakfasted. Taking care not to awaken the sleeper, Dorothy left the room and, after debating her future actions, she finally went in search of Murray. She found the footman polishing the silver service in the pantry.

"Miss Millicent wishes to know, Murray, if Mr. Wyndham has returned," she said, letting the swing door close behind her.

"No, Miss Dorothy, not yet." Murray dropped his chamois and straightened to an upright position, and a sudden sharp crick in his back resulting caused an involuntary[115] groan to burst from him. Dorothy looked at him sympathetically.

"Why not use Sloane’s liniment?" she asked.

Murray shook his head and eyed her dismally. "I’ll just have to endure it, miss—if it isn’t rheumatism it’s something else."

"Try a liver pill," suggested Dorothy. She was aware of Murray’s peculiarities, and, if discussing medicine and illness would put him in a good humor, she was willing to go any length; Murray alone could supply her with certain information. Her suggestion, however, was unfortunate.

Murray favored her with a withering glance. "It’s not my liver that gives me an ache in every bone, it’s grippe," he announced. "I’m wishing I had one of them ante-bellum cartridges."

"Had what?" Dorothy looked at him in honest amazement.

"Ante-bellum cartridges," he repeated. "The same as Dr. Noyes gave you, Miss Dorothy, when you came down with cold and fever in Christmas week."

"Oh!" Dorothy’s piquant face dimpled into a smile, hastily suppressed; discretion[116] prevailed in spite of her love of fun. It was wiser not to tell Murray that he should have said "antifebrin capsules"; she was there to wheedle, not to instruct. "Oh, Murray, I do hope you haven’t grippe—it’s so contagious."

"Yes, miss." But Murray did not look downcast at the idea. "We’d be a whole hospital then, a regular hospital." His face lengthened. "But we’ve no doctor in the house, now Dr. Noyes has gone."

"Oh, well, there’s one in the neighborhood; in fact, just across the fields—Dr. Thorne."

Murray shook his head dubiously. "I’m thinking I wouldn’t like him," he said thoughtfully. "They say he’s over-hasty at cutting people up."

Dorothy laughed, then became serious. "I believe he has made a specialty of surgery." She turned as if to go. "By the way, Murray, did Mr. Wyndham mention when he would be back?"

"No, miss, he didn’t." Murray, turning about to replace a dish on the shelf, smiled discreetly. "I’m thinking, miss, that Mr. Hugh intended to tell Mrs. Porter when he would be back when that ’tec, Mr. Mitchell, stepped out of the door I was holding open[117] for Mrs. Porter, and Mr. Hugh called to her to expect him when she saw him, and the car started off with a rush. He was here this morning."

"Who—Mr. Hugh?" Dorothy turned like a flash.

"No, no, miss, the ’tec, Mitchell. I hear tell as how he’s the man in charge here; tall, light-haired, looks as if he didn’t belong anywhere, ’cause he’s so busy concealing he’s looking everywhere."

"I know the man you mean." Dorothy laid her hand on the swing door. "Miss Millicent and I watched him pacing up and down the carriage drive before breakfast, and saw him go toward Dr. Thorne’s house. Has he been here since? Oh!" She stepped back, startled, as a face appeared at the pantry window, and a second later a finger tapped gently on the pane.

"Speaking of the devil"—muttered Murray, walking past Dorothy and throwing open the window. "What do you want to scare the lady for?" he demanded wrathfully.

"I beg your pardon." Mitchell lifted his hat and regarded Dorothy solemnly. "I was under the impression she had seen me standing[118] here a moment ago. Please tell Nurse Deane, Murray, that I wish to see her."

Dorothy, who had drawn back until she stood partly hidden by the wall of the pantry from Mitchell’s penetrating gaze, grew paler as she heard the detective’s request, and the quick droop of her eyelids hid a look of sudden terror. Before the footman could reply she stepped forward to the window.

"My sister is off duty this morning," she said. "She is still asleep in her bedroom. Can I take your message to her?"

Mitchell considered rapidly before replying. "May I have a few words with you?"

"Surely. Will you not come into the house? It is rather chilly standing by an open window."

"Walk around to the front door, sir, and I’ll show you into the drawing-room," directed Murray, removing his apron and closing the window. "Mrs. Porter is in the library," he added, and hastened to open the swing door.

With a word of thanks Dorothy walked slowly through the dining-room and down the hall, permitting the footman to reach the front door and usher Detective Mitchell into the drawing-room before she entered. She[119] bowed courteously to Mitchell and signed to him to take a chair near the sofa on which she deposited herself with careful regard to having her back turned to the windows and the detective facing the light. She waited for him to open the conversation.

"You came here last night, Miss Deane." It seemed more a simple statement of fact than a question, and Dorothy treated it as such and made no reply. Mitchell moved his chair nearer the sofa before asking, "Did I understand you to say that your sister was resting this morning—or ill?"

Dorothy started; ill, why should the detective imagine Vera was ill?

"She is resting," she responded. "Your ignorance of nurses’ hours of duty proves a clean bill of health, Mr. Mitchell. Night nurses must sleep in the daytime, especially when the day nurse is late in reporting for duty."

"But Mrs. Hall has been back for some time," persisted Mitchell. "And it is now nearly one o’clock. Are you quite sure that your sister is still asleep? I am under the impression that I saw her in the upper hall talking to Miss Porter fifteen minutes ago."

[120]Dorothy considered the detective in silence. What had aroused his sudden interest in Vera?

"If you will give me your message," she said, "I will go upstairs and see if my sister is awake."

"Thank you," replied Mitchell. "But I must see your sister—"

"When?"

"Now." Hearing a step behind him, Mitchell spun around as Murray stopped by the back of his chair.

"Mrs. Porter desires you to step into the library, sir," he announced. "You also, Miss Dorothy," and, wondering why her presence was required, Dorothy followed the detective into the library.

A disorderly pile of newspapers lay on the center table in front of Mrs. Porter, whose air of displeasure and heightened color Dorothy rightly attributed to the display type which heralded the news accounts of the mysterious death of Bruce Brainard.

"Upon my word," Mrs. Porter’s gold lorgnette performed an incessant tattoo on the table. "The unbridled license of the press of today! And your paper, Dorothy, is most[121] sensational," addressing her directly. "How could you permit it?"

"But, dear Mrs. Porter, I’m only society editor—I have no authority except over my particular section of the paper," protested Dorothy. "I am deeply sorry if—if the article offends you."

"It not only offends—it’s offensive!" fumed Mrs. Porter. "I spoke hastily, Dorothy; I admit you are in no way to blame, but I’ll place the matter in my lawyer’s hands, and the owners of the paper shall smart for hinting that we are a band of murderers."

"Surely it does not go as far as that?" ejaculated Mitchell.

"It implies it." Mrs. Porter favored him with an angry look. "I see the article gives you, Mr. Mitchell, as authority for the statement that Dr. Noyes is being sought by the police. How dare you insinuate that he may be guilty? I gave his reason for his abrupt departure at the inquest; the jurors did not hold him in any way responsible for the crime or bring a verdict against him."

"You must not believe everything you read in the newspapers," remarked Mitchell, meeting her irate glare with unruffled good nature.[122] "My precise statement to the newspaper men implied nothing against Dr. Noyes. The reporters simply picked him as the first possible ‘suspect.’"

"Kindly disabuse their minds of any such idea. Dr. Noyes, besides his professional ability, is a man of high character and proven courage. He would not stoop to murder," declared Mrs. Porter hotly. "Besides, there is no possible motive for his killing Bruce Brainard—they never even met before Monday night." Mitchell remained discreetly silent, and, after watching him in growing resentment, Mrs. Porter announced vehemently: "Mr. Brainard committed suicide. In ascribing his death to murder, the police err."

"What leads you to believe he committed suicide?" demanded Mitchell.

"His morbid tendencies, his—" She stopped abruptly. "He must have been suffering from mental aberration."

"All suicides are temporarily insane," agreed Mitchell. "Otherwise they would not kill themselves; but, Mrs. Porter, in Brainard’s case the medical evidence went to prove that the wound in his throat could not have been self-inflicted."

[123]"Fiddle-de-dee! I don’t place any reliance on that deputy coroner’s testimony." Mrs. Porter indulged in a most undignified sniff. "Was Dr. Beverly Thorne present at the autopsy?"

"No." Mitchell moved nearer the center table. Mrs. Porter’s altered manner at the mention of Beverly Thorne’s name had not escaped the detective’s attention. Apparently Mrs. Porter was far from loving her neighbor like herself. The family feud, whatever it was about originally, would not be permitted to die out in her day and generation. Mitchell dropped his voice to a confidential pitch: "Come, Mrs. Porter, if you will tell me what you have in mind—" Mrs. Porter’s frigid smile stopped him.

"I can hardly do that and remain impersonal—and polite," she remarked, and Dorothy, watching them both, smothered a keen desire to laugh. "It is my unalterable opinion that Bruce Brainard, in a fit of temporary insanity, killed himself," added Mrs. Porter.

"Ah, indeed! And where did he procure the razor?"

"That is for you to find out." Mrs. Porter rose. "Do that and you will—"

[124]"Identify the murderer," substituted Mitchell, with a provoking smile; in the heat of argument she might let slip whatever she hoped to conceal.

"No, prove my theory correct," Mrs. Porter retorted, rising and walking toward the door. She desired the interview closed. "Have you the key to Mr. Brainard’s bedroom?"

"Yes, Mrs. Porter."

"Then kindly return it to me." And she extended her hand. "The room must be cleaned and put in order."

"Not yet," retorted Mitchell. "It was to prevent anything being touched in the room that I locked the door. After the mystery is solved, Mrs. Porter, I shall be most happy to return the key."

Mrs. Porter elevated her eyebrows as she looked at Dorothy and murmured in an audible aside, "Clothed in a little brief authority;" then, addressing Mitchell, who was following them to the door, "Mr. Mitchell, in the absence of my nephew, Mr. Wyndham, I must remind you that I cannot permit you or your assistants to intrude upon the privacy of my family."

"Except in the line of duty, madam."[125] Mitchell’s tone matched hers. "This case must be thoroughly investigated, no matter who is involved. Miss Deane, kindly inform your sister that I must see her at the earliest possible moment."

"She will see you when she is disengaged, and not before," retorted Mrs. Porter, wrath getting the better of her judgment, and laying an imperious hand on Dorothy’s arm she conducted her from the room.

Mitchell turned back and paced up and down the library for over five minutes, then paused in front of the telephone stand. "So the old lady is hostile," he muttered, turning the leaves of the telephone directory. "And Pope isn’t back yet—" He ran his finger down the list of names and at last found the one he sought. Hitching the telephone nearer he repeated a number into the mouthpiece, and a second later was talking with Beverly Thorne.

"What, doctor, you don’t wish to come here again!" ejaculated the detective, as Thorne refused his first request. "Now, don’t let that fool feud interfere with your helping me, doctor. I assure you you can be of the greatest assistance, and as justice of the peace[126] I think there is no other course open to you. Yes, I want you right away—you’ll come? I shan’t forget it, doctor. I’ll meet you at the door." And with a satisfied smile the detective hung up the receiver and went in search of Murray.

Mitchell, twenty minutes later, stood twirling his thumbs in the front hall; his growing impatience was finally rewarded by the ringing of the front bell, and before the butler could get down the hall he had opened the door and was welcoming Thorne.

"We’ll go upstairs, doctor," said Mitchell, after Thorne had surrendered his hat and overcoat to Selby, and stood waiting the detective’s pleasure. "Selby, ask Miss Vera Deane to join us at once—"

"I am here," cut in a voice from the stair landing, and Vera stepped into view. Her eyes traveled past the detective and rested on Beverly Thorne with an intentness which held his own gaze. Totally oblivious of Mitchell and the butler they continued to stare at each other. Suddenly the carmine crept up Vera’s white cheeks, and she turned to Mitchell, almost with an air of relief. "What is it you wish?"

[127]"A few minutes’ chat with you," answered the detective, mounting the stairs. "Suppose we go into Mr. Brainard’s bedroom. Will you lead the way?" waiting courteously on the landing, but there was an appreciable pause before Vera complied with his request, and it was a silent procession of three which the butler saw disappear upstairs.

Mitchell was the first to speak as they gathered about the bedroom door. "Nice dainty little watch charm to carry about with me," he said, holding up a massive brass key which measured at least six inches in length, with a ward in proportion. "Did you lock Mr. Brainard’s door, Miss Deane, on Monday night when you returned to your other patient?"

"No, I left the door unlocked, but closed." Vera spoke with an effort. "As you see, Mr. Mitchell, the old lock turns with difficulty, and I feared the noise it makes"—a protesting squeak from the interior of the lock as Mitchell turned the key illustrated her meaning—"would disturb Mr. Brainard."

"It needs oiling, that’s a fact." Mitchell flung open the unlocked door. "Come right in," he said, and stalked ahead of them.

[128]Vera paused on the threshold and half turned as if to go back, but Thorne’s figure blocked the doorway. Slowly, with marked reluctance, she advanced into the bedroom, and at a sign from Mitchell, who was watching her every movement, Thorne closed the door, his expression inscrutable.

"Look about, Miss Deane," directed Mitchell, sitting down and drawing out his notebook. "I want you to study each article in the room and tell us if it is just where it stood at the time you discovered Brainard had been murdered. Sit down, if you wish," indicating a chair near him.

"Thanks, I prefer to stand." Vera eyed the two men, then did as she was bidden, but as she looked about the bedroom she was considering the motive underlying the detective’s request. What did he hope to learn from her? How dared he make her a stalking horse, and in the presence of Beverly Thorne! The thought bred hot resentment, but the red blood flaming her cheeks receded as quickly as it had come at sight of a figure stretched out in the bed under the blood-stained sheets and blankets. A slight scream escaped her and she recoiled.

[129]"It is only a dummy," explained Mitchell hastily, laying a soothing hand on her arm. She shrank from his touch.

"I realize it now," said Vera, moistening her dry lips with the tip of her tongue. "I had not expected to find it there."

"Do you see any changes in the room, Miss Deane?" asked Mitchell, as she lapsed into silence.

Vera, who had been gazing at the figure in the bed as if hypnotized, turned mechanically about and inspected the bedroom. The window curtains had been drawn back and the shades raised, and the room was flooded with light. Catching a glimpse of herself in the huge antique mirror above the mantelpiece as she turned her back to the bed, Vera was startled to see how white and drawn her reflection appeared in its clear depths, and surreptitiously rubbed her cheeks to restore their color.

"I see nothing changed on the mantel," she said, and the sound of her calm voice reassured her; she had not lost her grip, no matter what the mirror told her. "But"—she wrinkled her brow in thought as her eyes fell on a chair on which were flung a suit of[130] clothes and some underclothing—"Mr. Brainard’s dress suit was laid neatly on the sofa over there, and his underclothes there also."

"Did you place them there?" asked Mitchell, jotting down her remarks.

"No, they were there when I came into the bedroom Monday night."

"Did they appear mussed or rumpled the next morning, Miss Deane, as if Brainard had risen in the night and searched the pockets?" inquired Thorne, breaking his long silence. He had followed the detective’s questions and Vera’s replies with the closest attention, while his eyes never left her. It seemed almost as if he could not look elsewhere, and but for Vera’s absorption she could not have failed to note his intent regard.

Vera hesitated before answering his question. "I think the clothes had not been touched," she said. "My impression is that they lay exactly where Mr. Brainard placed them before retiring."

"Do you think Mr. Brainard, a sick man, placed the clothes on the sofa, and not Wyndham or Noyes?"

"You must get that information from either of those men," replied Vera wearily. "I was[131] not present when Mr. Brainard was put to bed."

"But you can inform us, Miss Deane, if Dr. Noyes ordered an opiate administered to Brainard," broke in Mitchell, and Thorne looked sharply at him. What was he driving at?

"No, Dr. Noyes did not order an opiate." Vera moved restlessly. "I gave Mr. Brainard a dose of aromatic spirits of ammonia as directed, and that was all."

Mitchell rose and stepped into the center of the bedroom and pointed to the transom. It was an oblong opening in the thick wall, forming the top, apparently, of what had formerly been a door jamb; the communicating doorway, judging from appearances, having been bricked up years before. The glass partition of the transom, secured at the bottom to the woodwork by hinges, hung down into the bedroom occupied by Craig Porter from chains fastened to the upper woodwork of the transom, and was barely visible from where Vera and Thorne stood in Brainard’s bedroom. The glass partition, when closed, was held in place by a catch lock at the top.

[132]"Look at that, Miss Deane," exclaimed Mitchell harshly. "The transom is almost entirely open. Do you still maintain that you heard no sound during the night in this bedroom?"

"I heard no sound which indicated murder was being committed in this room," Vera protested vehemently. "I tell you I heard nothing," observing Mitchell’s air of skepticism. "To prove to you that all sound does not carry into the next bedroom, one of you go in there, and I will steal from the hall into this room and over to the bed, and the one who remains can tell what takes place in this room."

"A good idea." Mitchell walked briskly toward the door. "You watch, doctor," and he stood aside for Vera to step past him into the hall, then followed her outside and closed the door securely behind him.

Barely waiting for their departure, Thorne moved over to the chair on which lay Brainard’s clothes, and hurriedly searched the few pockets of the dress suit, only to find them empty. Evidently the police had taken charge of whatever had been in them. He was just turning away when the door opened[133] without a sound and Vera, her white linen skirt slightly drawn up, slipped into the room and with stealthy tread crept toward the bed.

Thorne watched her, fascinated by her unconscious grace and her air of grim determination. He instinctively realized that the test she had suggested was repugnant to her high-strung, sensitive nature, and only his strong will conquered his intense desire to end the scene. As close as he was to her he heard no sound; but for the evidence of his eyes he could have sworn that he was alone in the room. He saw her turn to approach the head of the bed, falter, and draw back, and was by her side instantly. She looked at him half dazed, and but for his steadying hand would have measured her length on the ground. He read the agony in her eyes and responded to the unconscious appeal.

"Come back, Mitchell," he called, and while he pitched his voice as low as possible its carrying qualities reached the detective in Craig Porter’s bedroom, and he hurried into the next room in time to see Thorne offer Vera his silver flask.

"No, I don’t need it," she insisted, pushing[134] his hand away. "It was but a momentary weakness. I have had very little sleep for the past forty-eight hours, and am unstrung. If you have no further questions to ask me, Mr. Mitchell, I will return to my room."

Before replying Mitchell looked at Thorne. "Did she do as she said she would?" he asked. "I heard nothing in the next room until you called me."

"Yes. Frankly, had I not seen Miss Deane open the door and enter this room I would have thought myself alone," responded Thorne.

"The carpet is thick." Mitchell leaned down and passed his hand over it. "It would deaden any sound of footsteps. You are sure that you heard no talking in here Monday night, Miss Deane?"

"I have already said that I did not," retorted Vera, and she made no attempt to keep the bitterness she was feeling out of her voice. "It seems very hard to convince you, Mr. Mitchell, that I am not a liar."

Thorne, who had been staring at the bed-table, looked up quickly.

"Did you see a razor lying on this table when you arranged the night light for Brainard, Miss Deane?" he asked.

[135]"No." Vera sighed; would they never cease questioning her? "That brass bell, the glass night light, empty medicine glass, and water caraffe were the only articles on the table."

Mitchell went over to the foot of the bed. "Just whereabouts on the bed did you see the razor yesterday morning?" he asked.

Vera, who stood with her back almost touching the bed, turned reluctantly around. It was a high four-post bedstead and required a short flight of steps to mount into it, but some vandal had shortened the four beautifully carved posts to half their height and the canopy had also been removed.

The figure lay huddled face down, for which Vera was deeply grateful. Even in its dark hair she visualized the tortured features of Bruce Brainard, and she turned with a shudder to point to a spot on the bed just below the sleeve of the pyjamas which clothed the figure.

"The razor lay there," she announced positively.

"Thanks." Mitchell closed and pocketed his notebook. "Now, one more question, Miss Deane, and then we will let you off.[136] At what time yesterday morning did you go to summon Dr. Noyes?"

"To be exact, at twenty minutes of six."

"And what hour was it when you first discovered the murder?"

Vera stared at him dazedly, then her trembling hand clutched the bedclothes for support, but as her fingers closed over the sleeve of the pyjamas they encountered bone and muscle. With senses reeling she half collapsed in Thorne’s arms as the figure rolled over and disclosed Murray’s agitated countenance.

"H-he m-made m-me do it, miss," the footman stuttered, pointing an accusing finger at Mitchell. "Said he wanted to play a trick on Dr. Thorne; but if I’d dreamed he wanted to scare you, miss, I’d never have agreed, never. And I’ve been lying here in agony, miss, afraid to speak because I might scare you to death, and hoping you’d leave the room without knowing about me. If Mrs. Porter ever hears!" Murray gazed despairingly at them. "She wouldn’t have minded me making a fool of Dr. Thorne. Oh, Miss Deane, don’t look at me like that!" and his voice shook with feeling.

[137]"It’s all right," gasped Vera, standing shakily erect; Murray’s jumbled explanation had given her time to recover her poise. She turned to Detective Mitchell, her eyes blazing with indignation. "The farce is ended, sir, and my answer to your last question is the same—I found Mr. Brainard lying here with his throat cut at twenty minutes of six. Good afternoon." And she left the three men contemplating each other.

[138]
CHAPTER IX
IN THE ATTIC
THE high wind sweeping around the Porter mansion in ever increasing volume found an echo under the eaves, and the attic in consequence resounded with dismal noises. Much of the space under the sloping roof had been given up to the storage of trunks and old furniture, but on the side facing the Potomac River wooden partitions divided that part of the attic into rooms for servants.

The south wall of the attic was lined with pine book shelves which ran up to the wooden rafters. There old Judge Erastus Porter had stored his extensive law library, and there his great-niece, little Millicent Porter, had made her playhouse when she visited him. The nook used in childhood had retained its affection in Millicent’s maturer years and, the trunks forming an effectual barricade, she had converted it into a cozy corner, placed pretty curtains in the dormer window, a rug on the[139] bare boards, wheeled an easy-chair, a highboy, and a flat-top desk into their respective places, and, last but not least, a large barrel stood near at hand filled with out-of-print books and a paper edition of Scott’s novels. Mrs. Porter on her first tour of inspection of the attic had remonstrated against the barrel, stating that it spoiled the really handsome pieces of furniture which Millicent had converted to her own use, but her daughter insisted that the barrel added a touch of picturesqueness, and that she still enjoyed munching an apple and reading "Ivanhoe," a statement that drew the strictured comment from Mrs. Porter that Millicent had inherited all her father’s peculiarities, after which she was left in peace and possession.

Bundled up in a sweater, Millicent sat cross-legged before a small brass-bound, hair-covered trunk, another companion of her childhood, for she had first learned to print by copying the initials of her great-great-grandfather outlined in brass tacks on the trunk lid. The trunk still held a number of childish treasures, as well as cotillion favors, invitations, photographs, and a bundle of manuscripts. But contrary to custom, Millicent[140] made no attempt to look at the neatly typewritten sheets; instead she sat contemplating the open trunk, her head cocked on one side as if listening.

Finally convinced that all she heard was the moaning of the wind under the eaves, she lifted out the tray, and, pushing aside some silks and laces, removed the false bottom of the trunk and took from it a ledger. Propping the book against the side of the trunk she turned its pages until she came to an entry which made her pause:

Dined with Mrs. Seymour. Bruce Brainard took me out to dinner. He was very agreeable.

And apparently from the frequency with which his name appeared in her "memory book," Bruce Brainard continued to be "agreeable." Millicent turned page after page, and for the first time read between the lines of her stylish penmanship what her mother, with the far-sighted eyes of experience, had interpreted plainly. Flattered by the attentions of a polished man of the world, years older than herself, Millicent had mistaken admiration for interest and liking for love. Brainard’s courtship of the debutante had been ardent, and what she termed an engagement[141] and her mother "an understanding" had followed. Brainard had pleaded for an early wedding, but business had called him away to Brazil, and on Millicent’s advice, who knew her mother’s whims and fancies, he had postponed asking Mrs. Porter’s consent to their engagement until his return.

Millicent read on and on in her ledger; accounts of parties gave place to comments about her brother, Craig, then he absorbed the entire space allotted to each day, and the progress of his trip home was duly recorded, and the items:

October 5th—Thank God, Craig is home again, but, oh, what a wreck! It’s agony to see him lying in bed unable to move hand or foot, unable to speak, unable to recognize us. But he’s home, not lying in an unknown grave somewhere in Europe. I’ve just met Dr. Alan Noyes, who accompanied Craig to this country, and to whose skill Craig owes his slender hold on life. The doctor is painfully shy.

October 7th—Saw more of Dr. Noyes today; he improves on acquaintance. Mother says he is not shy, only reticent.

Millicent did not linger over the next few entries, but paused and scanned the words:

October 15th—Vera Deane has replaced the night nurse for Craig. She reminds me so of Dorothy, yet[142] they are not a bit alike. Persuaded Dr. Noyes to talk about his experiences in the field hospitals abroad. Must write Bruce tonight without fail.

Millicent skipped several pages, then came the entry:

December 15th—I had no idea Alan Noyes had such a temper; we quarreled most awfully. He announced his creed is never to forget a friend and never to forgive an enemy. Well, I can be stubborn, too.

Millicent sighed drearily and jumped to the date:

December 24th—Alan Noyes has been exceptionally nice today. Our quarrel has blown over. I wish I had told him about Bruce when we first met.

A tear rolled down Millicent’s white cheek and splashed upon the paper, then suddenly she bowed her head and gave way to the grief consuming her. The minutes lengthened, and at last she sat up and dried her eyes. The outburst had brought physical relief, for during the past twenty-four hours she had fought off every inclination to allow her feelings sway, had suppressed all sign of emotion, and had refused to discuss Bruce Brainard’s mysterious death, even with her mother.

Who’s there?
"Who’s there?" she called, as heavy steps approached.

Mrs. Porter had hoped that Millicent’s unnatural calm would give way when unburdening[143] herself to her old chum, Dorothy Deane, and she had made opportunities to leave the girls together. But she was not aware that Dorothy had shown an equal desire to avoid the topic of the tragedy, and Millicent found to her secret relief that she was not urged to confidences which she might later bitterly regret. But that afternoon she had felt the need of being by herself, and had fled upstairs, hoping her mother would not think of looking for her in the attic.

Millicent pulled a chair close to her side and was on the point of rising from her cramped position before the trunk when she heard someone coming up the uncarpeted stairs. She slammed the ledger shut and thrust it among the silks and laces in the trunk, and, pulling out a vanity box, commenced powdering her nose and removing all traces of recent tears.

"Who’s there?" she called, as heavy steps approached.

"Me, Miss Millicent."

"Oh, Murray!" Her tone spoke her relief. "Have you brought the coffee and sandwiches I told Selby to order for me?"

"Yes, miss." And the footman emerged[144] from behind the highboy which, with a Japanese screen, partly blocked the view of the cozy corner from the rest of the attic.

"Just put the tray on my desk," directed Millicent. "Has mother gone out?"

"Yes, miss; she took Miss Dorothy in to Washington." Murray moved several of the desk ornaments to make room for the tray. "These ladies called just now, Miss Millicent, but I said you were out." And he handed her a number of visiting-cards.

She barely glanced at the names before tossing the cards aside. "I am thankful you did, Murray; make my excuses to callers for the next week. I can see no one."

"Very good, miss." But Murray lingered, a troubled look in his eyes. "The ’tec, Mitchell, left word that he’d be back this evening, miss, and that he’s got to see you."

"Oh, he has?" Millicent’s eyes sparkled with anger. "Inform Mr. Mitchell that I decline to see him."

"Yes, miss," and Murray smiled broadly. "Shall I throw him out, miss?"

"Heavens, no!" exclaimed Millicent. "You might get in serious trouble with the law. He has, I suppose," bitterly, "the right to[145] hang about the scene of a crime—detectives are sanctioned human vultures."

"He is, miss; a regular troublesome, meddlesome busybody, getting innocent people into trouble," responded Murray feelingly. "He thinks he’s so bright with his ideas—I’ll idea him." And the footman, forgetting his customary respectful attitude in his indignation, doubled up his fists suggestively. "How is Miss Deane feeling, miss?"

"Who, Miss Vera? She is at last getting some rest; be sure, Murray, and tell mother and Miss Dorothy not to disturb her when they return."

"Certainly, miss." The footman turned to leave. "Anything else I can get you, miss?"

"Not a thing, thank you." But as Murray stepped around the highboy she asked: "Any telegrams or telephones?"

"No telegrams, miss; but the telephone is going every instant, ’most all of them are reporters."

"Don’t give out any information, Murray," she cautioned.

"Certainly not, miss." And he hurried away.

Millicent waited until she heard the door[146] at the foot of the attic stairs close, then bent over the trunk and again took out the ledger and carefully tore out a handful of pages. Before replacing the ledger in its hiding-place she felt about under the false bottom until convinced that the article she sought was still there, after which she put back the ledger and the false bottom, rearranged the silks and laces, put in the tray, and locked the trunk.

"If you are not going to drink your coffee, I will," announced a voice to her left, and a man stepped out from behind the Japanese screen. A low cry escaped Millicent, and her hands closed spasmodically over the pages torn from her ledger.

"Hugh!" she gasped. "Where—where have you been?"

"In town." Wyndham stopped by the tray and, picking up the plate of sandwiches, handed it to Millicent. She shook her head. "No?" he queried; "then I’ll eat your share." He poured out a cup of coffee and drank it clear, almost at a gulp. "That’s delicious," he declared. "I had no idea I was so cold and hungry. Can’t I help you get up?"

But Millicent declined his proffered assistance,[147] and rose somewhat clumsily, both hands engaged in pressing the torn sheets into the smallest possible compass.

"Where have you been, Hugh?" she asked again.

"Sitting on a trunk behind that screen waiting for Murray to go downstairs," he responded, refilling his cup.

"Then you came up to the attic just after he did?"

"In his wake, so to speak." He shot a questioning look at her. "Everyone appears to be out this afternoon."

"Yes." Millicent carefully turned her back to the dormer window and sat down on the arm of her easy-chair. "You haven’t answered my question, Hugh—where have you been ever since the inquest?"

"At the club." Wyndham helped himself to another sandwich. "Awfully sorry I couldn’t get in touch with Dorothy Deane and deliver your message. I was sorry to disappoint you."

"But I wasn’t disappointed. She received the message in time and came last night."

Wyndham seemed to have some difficulty swallowing his coffee.

[148]"Is she still here?" he inquired as soon as he could speak.

"Yes. Mother insisted that she could run her social column from here as well as from her boarding-house. Most of the social news is gathered over the telephone," explained Millicent vaguely. "And mother promised to motor in to the office every afternoon and bring her out again in the evening."

Wyndham set his coffee-cup back on its saucer with small regard for its perishable qualities.

"I might have known that she would come," he said, half to himself; then louder: "Intimate friends don’t have to be told when they are needed."

"Dorothy has so much tact—"

"Discussing me?" And Dorothy Deane appeared at Wyndham’s elbow. There was a distinct pause as she recognized Millicent’s companion, and her cheeks, rosy from her long motor ride in the wind, paled. "Oh!" she ejaculated, with an attempt at lightness which deceived but one of her hearers. "The wanderer has returned."

"Yes—returned to you," was Wyndham’s quiet rejoinder, and his eyes never left her.[149] "It was very careless of you, Dorothy, not to leave word at the office that you were coming out here last night."

"If I had mentioned it the managing editor would have insisted that I cover"—she stopped and colored painfully—"new developments for the paper."

Wyndham transferred his attention to his cousin. "New developments," he repeated. "Have there been any since I left last night?"

His question did not receive an immediate reply, for Millicent had not paid strict attention to their conversation, being absorbed in secreting the sheets torn from her diary inside her gown.

"Nothing new," she responded dully. "The detectives are still looking for clues, and under that pretense poking their noses into everyone’s concerns."

"Let them. Who cares?" But Wyndham did not look so care-free as his words implied. "Brainard’s death is a seven days’ wonder in Washington, Millicent; so be prepared for all sorts of sensational stories. Our friends will talk themselves to a standstill after a time."

"I suppose sensational stories are to be expected,"[150] admitted Millicent, and she moved restlessly away from her chair. "But what are Bruce’s friends doing?"

Wyndham looked at her quickly. "I don’t understand you—"

"I mean what steps are Bruce’s friends taking to trace the—the murderer?"

Wyndham took a newspaper from his pocket and unfolded it.

"Brainard’s brother has offered a reward of five thousand dollars for the arrest of the criminal," he stated, pointing to an article in the paper.

Dorothy broke the silence with an impatient stamp of her foot. "The fool!" she exclaimed. "He’d better have waited until it’s proven beyond doubt that it was a murder and not a suicide."

The newspaper crinkled in Millicent’s hand as she took it, and Wyndham, his eyes roving about the cozy corner, stated quietly:

"The police have found that Brainard never shaved himself, but went every morning to a barber shop just below his apartment house. Apparently he never owned a razor, and the police seem to think that evidence precludes all possibility of suicide."

[151]"I don’t see why," protested Millicent, looking up from the paper. "If Bruce contemplated suicide he could have purchased a razor."

"True, but investigation proves that he did not buy a razor at any of the dealers handling them in Washington, or at a pawnshop. I must admit the police have been very thorough in their search," acknowledged Wyndham. "It’s all in the evening papers." He stopped for a moment, then added steadily, "I think, no matter how terrible we find the idea, that we must accept the theory that Brainard was murdered."

Millicent caught her breath. "I don’t agree with you," she retorted obstinately. "Are we meekly to consider ourselves murderers just because Bruce never, apparently, owned a razor?"

"You are right," declared Dorothy, but her manner, to Wyndham’s watchful eyes, indicated that she was clutching at a straw rather than announcing her convictions. "Some friend might have loaned him a razor— Heavens! what’s that?"

A loud hail sounded up the staircase. "Millicent! Millicent!" and they recognized[152] Mrs. Porter’s angry accents. "Why in the world are you staying in that cold attic? Come down at once."

"Yes, mother." Millicent started for the staircase, casting an appealing look at Dorothy as she passed her, and in mute response the latter turned to follow, but at the top of the stairs Wyndham laid a detaining hand on her shoulder.

"Wait," he entreated, and as he met her wistful, frightened glance he repressed with difficulty the emotion that threatened to master him. "Dorothy, never forget I have your interests at heart to the exclusion of all else."

"Hush!" She raised a trembling hand to his lips, and seizing it he pressed it against his cheeks.

"Dear, how cold you are!" he murmured fondly, caressing her hand.

"Hush!" she reiterated. "Hugh, you must not—this is not the time—"

"It is," with obstinate fervor. "You cannot have forgotten—"

"Forgotten?" Dorothy started as if stung. "Would to heaven I could!"

"Then you understand?" She looked at him dumbly. "You are sure you understand?"

[153]Through a mist of tears Dorothy studied him, and as she met his imploring gaze a wave of tenderness sent her other hand to meet his eager clasp; then horror of herself, of her thoughts, checked her wild longing to throw herself into his arms, and she drew back.

"It is because I understand," she said, steadying her voice with an effort, "that I shall never cease to reproach myself—"

"Stop!" Wyndham held up an imperative hand. "You must not reproach yourself. Bruce Brainard deserved what he got. I tell you he did—" noting her expression. "It was justifiable homicide."

[154]
CHAPTER X
THE BLACK-EDGED CARD
THE hall clock was just striking three on Thursday afternoon when Murray stopped before the room occupied jointly by Mrs. Hall and Vera and rapped smartly on the closed door. It was opened by Vera.

"You are wanted at the telephone, miss," the footman announced, and she stepped into the hall.

"Who wants me, Murray?"

"The party wouldn’t give his name."

"Oh!" Vera’s footsteps lagged. "Did you recognize the voice?"

"No, miss. Shouldn’t wonder if it’s another ’tec," he added gloomily. Two whole days had passed and Mrs. Porter had not inquired for his state of health, and even Vera had failed him as a confidante for his latest symptoms; truly his world was out of joint. "I asked him for his message and he said he had to speak to you personally."

[155]A second "Oh!" slipped from Vera, then she went downstairs in thoughtful silence and was proceeding toward the library when Murray, of whose presence she had grown oblivious, addressed her.

"I hopes, miss, you don’t hold yesterday’s doings in Mr. Brainard’s room against me," he said earnestly. "I feel very badly about it—very."

"I realize that you were not to blame," answered Vera. "But the others—" Her small hand clenched. "I’d rather forget the scene, Murray; some day, perhaps, I’ll get square with those men for the fright they gave me."

"I hope you will, miss." Murray threw open the library door. "I’m wishing Mrs. Porter would give orders not to admit them. Me and Selby are waiting our chance." And he smiled significantly.

"Perhaps she will." And Vera glanced earnestly at the footman. "You are not looking very well today, Murray; have you tried that tonic Dr. Noyes advised?"

The footman brightened. "I have, miss, but it don’t agree with me, and the neuralgia’s getting worse."

"That’s too bad. Come upstairs later and[156] I will give you a tube of Baume Analgesique Bengue." As the French name tripped off her tongue Murray regarded her with respectful admiration.

"It sounds great, miss; I’d like to use it, thank you." And he departed for his pantry, his manner almost cheerful.

Left to herself Vera closed the library door and approached the telephone with some hesitancy; she could think of no friend who would have a reason for not giving his name to the footman and concluded Murray was right in imagining the "party" to be a detective. Her interview with Mitchell the day before was still fresh in her mind and she resented the idea of further impertinence. It occurred to her, as she toyed with the receiver, that it was a simple matter to ring off if she found it was Mitchell at the other end of the wire; then a thought stayed her—suppose it was Dr. Beverly Thorne waiting to speak to her? Her expression hardened, and her voice sounded clear and cold as she called into the mouthpiece:

"Well?"

An unknown voice replied: "Is this Nurse Vera Deane?"

[157]Vera’s expression altered. "Yes, what is it?"

"This is Police Headquarters," went on the voice crisply, and Vera started. "Inspector North speaking. Have you lost anything, Miss Deane?"

"I? No."

"Are you sure you have not lost your handbag?"

"My handbag!" Vera’s raised accents testified to her astonishment. "No, certainly not."

"Quite sure, Miss Deane?" insisted the inspector.

"Yes; but as a matter of form I’ll run upstairs and look. Hold the telephone, please." And Vera dashed up to her room and unlocked her trunk; there lay her handbag, and pulling it open she found its contents intact.

She was out of breath when she again reached the telephone, and had to pause a second before speaking to the inspector.

"My handbag is upstairs, safe and sound," she called.

"Thank you." The inspector cleared his voice. "I called you up, Miss Deane, because[158] we found a handbag in a Mt. Pleasant car yesterday afternoon containing your visiting-card, and we located you through the Central Directory for Graduate Nurses."

"My visiting-card?" echoed Vera, astonished. "Are you sure it was mine?"

"Oh, yes, Miss Deane, your name is engraved in full on a black-edged card. Good afternoon." And he rang off.

A black-edged visiting-card? Vera sat clinging to the telephone receiver in bewilderment—it had been fully five years since she had had a black-edged visiting-card! Suddenly her ear detected the click of a receiver being hung up, and the faintness of the sound aroused her. Who had been listening in on the branch telephone in Mrs. Porter’s boudoir?

Vera went straight to the boudoir, but before she reached it Millicent walking down the hall paused in the act of entering her own room and called her name softly.

"Mother is lying down," she said as Vera drew nearer. "Dorothy and I have just left the boudoir. Come and join us in my room." And she held out her hand with a little affectionate gesture which was characteristic of her. Vera smiled, and under sudden impulse[159] kissed her; there was something very winsome about Millicent, mere child as she was.

"Thanks, Millicent, I’ll come and sit with you later; but first I must take my ‘constitutional’—I haven’t had a walk for several days, and I need the fresh air."

Millicent stroked her cheek with tender fingers. "Perhaps the wind will put color there," she said. "You are not getting proper rest, Vera; for your pallor and heavy eyes tell the story."

Vera shook her head in dissent. "I only need fresh air; don’t let that foolish sister of mine put ideas into your head." She stopped abruptly as Hugh Wyndham stepped out of his aunt’s bedroom and joined them.

"Good afternoon, Miss Deane," he commenced cordially, but she returned his greeting so perfunctorily that Millicent’s eyes opened wide in surprise, and, reddening, Wyndham turned to his cousin. "Are you going to motor in to Washington with us, Millicent? Better come; you don’t have to leave the car or talk to anyone," guessing the cause of her hesitancy.

"True—" but still Millicent paused.

[160]"I think you had better go," put in Vera quietly, and barely glancing at Wyndham she went to her own room.

Wyndham smiled reassuringly as he caught Millicent’s puzzled frown. "Vera’s nerves are on edge," he said. "I quite understand her seeming rudeness."

"Well, I don’t," confessed Millicent. "Dorothy has a much sweeter disposition than her sister, and on her account I overlook Vera’s occasional tempers. Go and get the limousine, Hugh; Dorothy and I will be ready in ten minutes."

However, it was less than the prescribed ten minutes when Millicent and Dorothy stood waiting in the lower hall for the arrival of the car, and the latter, going into the library to collect some notes she had left there, encountered her sister on her way out of the side entrance to Dewdrop Inn.

"I wish you were going with us, Vera," she exclaimed impulsively. "Do come, there’s plenty of room in the limousine."

"Not today, dear." And Vera tempered the refusal with a kiss. She glanced at the yellow copy paper Dorothy was busy stuffing inside her muff. "Did you use the telephone[161] in Mrs. Porter’s boudoir about fifteen minutes ago?"

Dorothy shook her head. "No, but Mrs. Porter and then Hugh tried to get Central." Her sister’s reference to the boudoir recalled a recent conversation, and she added briskly: "Vera, why are you so stand-offish with the Porters? They are fond of you, yet you never spend any time with them, and I think they feel it."

Vera drew back from Dorothy’s detaining clasp. "I am here in my professional capacity, Dorothy, and I don’t wish to intrude upon them," she said gently. "Better that they think me ‘stand-offish’ than say I take advantage of ‘auld lang syne’ and push myself forward."

"What nonsense! I declare, Vera, you are downright provoking, not to say morbid," protested Dorothy. "It’s the result of never getting away from the atmosphere of the sick room. I don’t see how you stand it; the mere sight of suffering drives me wild, and to think of poor Craig Porter, whom I used to dance with, lying there inert—I just could not go to his room today when Mrs. Porter asked me to do so," she wound up. "His changed[162] appearance would break me down completely. How can you watch him night after night?"

"You and Craig were great friends, whereas I never knew him in those days." Vera lowered her voice. "Let me see, did you first meet him when we were in mourning?"

"No, before that, when Millicent and I were at Catonsville together. We were great chums." And she smiled, then winked away a sudden rush of tears. "Poor Craig!"

"Don’t call him ‘poor’—he is rich in accomplishment," rapped out Vera. "Think what he has done for the Allies; get Mrs. Porter to tell you of the honors paid Craig by the gallant Frenchmen, and never call him poor again."

"I wasn’t alluding to his past, but his present," explained Dorothy, somewhat startled by the gleam in her sister’s eyes. "I understand he can’t utter a sound or move a muscle."

"He can’t." She paused as Millicent’s voice echoed down the hall. "Go, dear, they are calling you."

But Dorothy lingered. "Have you any errands I can attend to for you in town?"

"N-no—wait." Vera spoke hurriedly as[163] steps approached. "See if you can find my package of visiting-cards—"

"I told you months ago, Vera, that you hadn’t any left," interrupted Dorothy.

"Perhaps you can find an old one, even if it’s black-edged, in my desk—"

Dorothy shook her head violently. "I can’t; I looked there at Christmas and could not find any kind of a card. Coming right away, Murray," as the footman appeared. "Do you wish me to order some cards struck off?"

"Yes," called Vera. "Pay for it with the money I gave you yesterday." And Dorothy disappeared with Murray in attendance.

Vera waited until convinced that the limousine must have driven off, then, tossing the blue cape with its small picturesque red cross about her shoulders, she opened the side door and, skirting the back of the house, walked swiftly past the garage. Passing down a lane she crossed a field and went up a path leading to the "side hill," as that part of the Porter plantation was called.

The cold and wind of the preceding day had abated, and Vera took deep breaths of the delicious, invigorating air, as, deserting the[164] path, she made her way among the trees and dead underbrush to a clearing high up on the hillside, which, except from above, was invisible from the path she had quitted some moments before. A huge mica rock, known locally as Diamond Rock, occupied most of the clearing, and Vera exclaimed with pleasure as she caught the rainbow effects produced by the winter sunshine on its surface. Stepping in clefts in the rock she slowly mounted to the top and made herself comfortable. Once settled on her perch, she turned her attention to the panoramic view of the Potomac River far below her and the surrounding countryside.

But she barely saw the landscape, her thoughts being concentrated upon the Porter limousine and its occupants. Too late she regretted that she had not accompanied Millicent and Dorothy to Washington. But when her sister had asked her, a feeling of abhorrence had swept over her at the prospect of being inclosed in a small space and listening to their chatter. Her desire to be out in the open and by herself had gained the mastery; for an hour at least she could wrestle with her problems and decide on the future.[165] She resolutely determined to put all thought of the past out of her mind, but it was a greater task than she had imagined—the past would not bury its dead!

Great drops of perspiration beaded her forehead as incidents of the past three days rose before her: her first glimpse of Bruce Brainard in bed Monday night—the tragedy—the inquest—the detectives— Vera plucked at her handkerchief and pressed it against her forehead and her cheeks, rubbing the latter vigorously. She must not think of the past; the future concerned her more intimately.

She must decide on a course of action before Detective Mitchell devised other methods to trap her, and remembrance of the scene in Brainard’s bedroom twenty-four hours before brought a hot flush of resentment in its train. She would square accounts with the detective before many days had passed, and her pretty teeth met with a determined snap. What troubled her was Beverly Thorne. She wished that she might dismiss him from her mind; then shivered involuntarily as she grudgingly admitted to herself that she feared his quick intelligence, his ever-searching eyes and cynical smile. It was an evil fate that[166] had thrown him across her path. As the thought crossed her mind, she saw someone moving in and out among the trees to her right. The newcomer was making his way down the hillside, and she watched him idly.

The man kept a zigzag course and she was unable to get a good look at his face as, with cap pulled down over his forehead and the collar of his Norfolk jacket turned up, he seemed intently scanning the ground, pausing now and then to watch a switch which he carried loosely before him in both hands. Suddenly he stopped and, facing in her direction looked up long and earnestly into the bare branches of a tall tree. Vera’s breath forsook her as she recognized Beverly Thorne. Had she conjured him to appear?

After testing a lower branch of the tree with his weight Thorne transferred his attention to the cleft stick in his hand and strode onward. He was within a few yards of Vera before he discovered her presence. There followed a momentary hesitation on his part, then he advanced to the rock and bowed gravely.

"You have caught me trespassing," he began. "What is the forfeit?"

Vera pointed in the direction he had come[167] where a wire fence could be seen in the distance; she knew that placards placed at intervals announced: "No trespassing under penalty of the law."

"As a ‘J. P.’ you must be aware of the penalty exacted for trespass," she answered, preparing to rise.

He noticed her movement, and raised his hand. "Don’t let me drive you away," he begged, appreciating to the full the charming picture she made perched on the rainbow-hued rock, her blue cape and its red cross in striking contrast to the dull colors of the woods. "I am going."

His announcement, however, while it had the effect of inducing Vera to remain where she was, proved a mere figure of speech, as he did not move from his place by the rock. At the end of a long silence Vera could not restrain her impatience, and he caught the antagonism she strove but faintly to conceal.

"Miss Deane"—Thorne skirted the rock and came closer to her—"I am afraid you harbor resentment against me. I assure you that I had no hand in the trick played on you by Detective Mitchell yesterday."

"Your presence with the detective in the[168] spare bedroom leads me to think otherwise," she replied coldly.

"I can explain," he began, but her raised hand stayed him.

"Why attempt an explanation, doctor?" she asked, and her disdain showed so plainly that he colored with indignation.

"Because I desire to set myself right in your eyes," he answered.

"With what object?"

His eyes did not fall before the challenge in hers, while a warm, sunny smile lightened the severe lines of his stubborn chin and determined mouth.

"Object—matrimony," he retorted, and she detected the twinkle in his eyes and the faint mockery discernible in his voice. Her resolve was instantly taken; she would meet him on the ground he had chosen—woman’s wit against man’s intelligence was a game old when Methuselah was young. She rose and dropped Thorne a half courtesy, balancing herself on the rock with graceful ease.

"On so short an acquaintance your jest is flattering, but ill-timed." She paused, then added, "I thank you—and decline."

"Wait." He laid down the switch of witch-hazel[169] and drew nearer. "Our acquaintance is not so short; it commenced six years ago in New York."

Vera stared at him intently. "I fail to recollect," she began, and paused uncertainly.

Instead of answering verbally he took out his leather wallet and, searching among its contents, finally produced a black-edged visiting-card. On the reverse side were traced the words:

February 14—In grateful remembrance.

[170]
CHAPTER XI
MRS. PORTER GROWS INQUISITIVE
ASILENCE followed, so heavy as to be felt, then Vera took the black-edged card and, reversing it, read the engraved name. A rush of memories obliterated the bleak countryside. In its place she saw a busy city street, a swaying figure, a cry for help, the later clang of the emergency ambulance—and the last agonizing parting from her beloved mother. She had been conscious of the aid rendered by the skilful hospital interne, but her mother had focused her attention to the exclusion of all else. After the funeral she had sent a present with her card "In grateful remembrance" to the city hospital authorities, asking them to see that it reached the surgeon who had attended her mother.

A sudden rush of tears almost blinded Vera, and the card fluttered to the rock unheeded.

"Dr. Thorne"—her voice was not fully[171] under control and a quiver crept into it—"I did not know—I had no idea—" She stammered and broke down.

"Don’t." Thorne swung himself up on the rock beside her and gazed at her with contrition. "Please don’t cry."

But the injunction was hardly needed, for Vera pulled herself together, and except for a few tears which she winked violently away, she had herself in hand again as she faced him.

"The card—" she commenced, but he did not allow her to finish the sentence.

"The card," he echoed, stooping to pick it up, "would never have been shown you except that I knew of no other way to break down your unfriendly attitude to me. Please," coloring warmly under his tan, "never allude to it again."

Vera looked at him long and steadily. She saw a well-set-up figure with the unmistakable air of good breeding; her eyes traveled slowly up to his face, and paused there, meeting the steady gaze of the somewhat quizzical gray eyes. His hair, slightly silvered at the temples, had a wave in it which suggested that under due provocation it might curl rather[172] attractively, without altering the somewhat grave air of the professional man. Vera held out her hand. "Let me have the card?" she asked.

But instead of complying with her request he slipped the card into his vest pocket. "I’ve carried it so long," he said softly, drawing closer. "Don’t deprive me of the card." And as Vera caught the wistful appeal in his eyes a hitherto unknown shyness overpowered her, and she stood tongue-tied. Thorne’s next words, however, brought her back to her surroundings with a jump. "Good heavens, Miss Deane!" he exclaimed as he caught a full view of her face and noted the dark shadows under her eyes and her hectic flush. "You must take care of yourself or you will be ill in bed."

"All I need is sleep," protested Vera, but Thorne shook his head in dissent.

"Consult your physician," he advised, a trifle sternly. "With your training you should know better than to trifle with your health. You are on the point of a nervous breakdown."

Vera smiled. "You exaggerate," she said, with an attempt to speak lightly. "I do not[173] need medical attendance. The fresh air this afternoon has done me good, and now," moving forward to the edge of the rock, "I must return and catch a few hours’ sleep before going on duty."

Without a word, but with his jaw set at an obstinate angle, Thorne scrambled down the rock, then turned back to assist Vera, only to find her at his elbow. She smiled up at him, slightly breathless from her exertions. Her face was dangerously close, and as Thorne looked deep into her lovely eyes his pulse lost a beat, then raced on. Hardly conscious of his action he clasped her hand in his.

"Vera—Miss Deane," he stammered, and his voice shook with feeling. "What madness led you to become so entangled in Bruce Brainard’s murder?"

Vera drew back as if struck, and jerked her hand free. "You are mad!" she retorted vehemently. "I am in no way concerned in the tragedy."

There was an instant’s pause, then Thorne picked up his witch-hazel stick and stood aside, balancing it in his fingers. With a slight inclination of her head Vera turned to[174] leave him, but she had gone but a few steps when he overtook her.

"I seem always to give offense," he said despairingly. "I’m an unlucky devil; never could express myself properly where I feel the most. Just now, Miss Deane, I only meant—" A pause followed as he sought the word he wanted. Vera’s sidelong glance convinced her that he appeared as perturbed as his speech implied. "I only meant to offer my services."

"As a physician?"

He flushed at her tone. "Yes, should you require medical attendance."

"Thank you." Vera stole another look at him under lowered lids, but his air of detached, friendly interest baffled her. What motive had inspired his burst of passion a scant five minutes before? Vera’s eyes closed as if in pain, and there danced before her mental vision the words: "February 14—In grateful remembrance." Was Thorne sincere in his proffer of friendship or was he still antagonistic to her and trading upon a woman’s sentiment to mask his true feelings? Pshaw! It was only fair to suspend judgment. It was the least that she could do[175] in view of Thorne’s past kindness—but why had he pocketed the card so hastily? Vera opened her eyes to find Thorne anxiously regarding her. With perceptible hesitancy she took up the conversation where she had left off. "Perhaps when you call to see Mr. Porter I will get you to prescribe for me."

"I am at your service." Thorne bowed courteously. "May I accompany you as far as the lane?"

"Certainly." And keeping step as much as the trees permitted they finally reached the path and walked briskly down it. Vera, who had been thinking intently, was the first to break the silence. "Have you studied law as well as medicine, doctor?" she asked. "And is that why they made you justice of the peace?"

"Not entirely," he responded, as he opened the gate of the lane. "I have a smattering of the law, and a passion for criminal investigation."

"Indeed?" Vera was unable to repress a start, and she quickly covered her agitation by pointing to the cleft switch which Thorne still carried balanced lightly in both hands. The switch, apparently of its own volition,[176] had assumed a perpendicular position. "Why are you carrying that twig?"

"Looking for water; I want to sink an artesian well, and this little wand points the way in my investigation."

"Oh! But you cannot hope to build the well on Mrs. Porter’s property."

Thorne laughed heartily. "Hardly; Mrs. Porter would never give me permission to do so."

"Then why waste time trespassing on her property?"

Again Thorne laughed, but a shadow lurked in his eyes as he glanced keenly at his questioner. "Frankly, I have two investigations under way," he acknowledged. "One to locate a spring, and the other to discover who murdered Bruce Brainard."

Vera’s back was toward the setting sun, and her face was in shadow. "If you spend your time looking for wells you will not solve the mystery of Mr. Brainard’s death," she said with slow emphasis.

"I’m not so sure of that." Thorne spun the cleft stick about in his fingers. "Are we not told that truth lies at the bottom of a well? Good-by." And lifting his cap he[177] vaulted the fence which separated his property from the Porter estate and disappeared behind some barns.

Vera did not at once resume her walk to the house, and when she did so her usually light footstep was dragging and her expression more troubled.

"Has Miss Millicent returned, Murray?" she asked on entering the butler’s pantry a few minutes later.

"No, miss." And Vera went wearily into the deserted library.

The rooms, with shades and curtains partly drawn and the fire on the hearth reduced to smoldering embers, was not conducive to cheerfulness, and Vera shivered as she threw herself down on the wide leather couch and pillowed her head on one of its numerous cushions.

"I wish I’d gone to Washington with Dorothy," she muttered, snuggling down under the warm folds of a carriage robe she had brought from the coat closet. "I could have stood their chatter better than—" Her thoughts supplied the name her lips did not utter, and Mrs. Porter, gliding noiselessly into the library, never dreamed that Beverly[178] Thorne’s domineering personality was keeping her beautiful nurse from peaceful slumber.

Mrs. Porter, her hands full of papers, went directly to the fireplace. Poking the embers into a feeble blaze, she squatted down on a footstool and placed the letters she carried one by one into the flames. Vera, lying with eyes closed, and buried in her own thoughts, did not become aware of her presence until the clang of a fire iron which Mrs. Porter inadvertently let slip aroused her. A certain furtiveness in Mrs. Porter’s movements checked Vera’s impulse to address her, and she watched her employer in a growing quandary. Should she let Mrs. Porter know that she was not alone in the room, or was she already aware of her, Vera’s, presence? It was highly probable that the latter was the case, as Mrs. Porter had to pass near the lounge to get to the fireplace, and Vera resolutely closed her eyes and did her best to drop off to sleep.

Mrs. Porter, with painstaking care, opened each letter and scanned it intently before depositing it in the fire. Her features looked pinched and worn in the ruddy glow from the burning paper. She faltered as her busy fingers came at last to a handful of twisted[179] papers, and it took her some moments to smooth out the torn sheets and place each separately on the red-hot embers. The last sheet followed its predecessor before the first had been quite consumed, and Mrs. Porter shuddered as the sheet, like some tortured body, twisted about, then stiffened, and the words it bore showed in bold relief:

Tuesday morning—Saw Alan. God help us both.

A flame shot upward across the sheet, and the scorching trail left no record in the ashes on the hearth.

Mrs. Porter poked among the embers until convinced that each scrap of paper had been burned, then rising stiffly she gazed uneasily about the library, letting her eyes finally rest on Vera. She studied the girl’s perfect profile with appraising keenness before seating herself in front of the center table and picking up her pen. But the words she sought to put on paper would not come, and she threw down her pen with a pettish exclamation; the continued silence in the room was getting on her nerves.

"Vera!" she called shrilly. "Wake up."

Even before she had finished speaking Vera[180] was on her feet, and a second more was standing by the older woman’s side, laying a soothing hand on her trembling fingers.

"What is it, Mrs. Porter?" she asked. "What can I do for you?"

"Talk to me." Mrs. Porter patted the chair next to hers and Vera sank into it. "I must have some diversion or I shall go mad!" And the gleam in her eyes lent color to her words. "Gossip with me."

"About what—politics?" mentioning the topic farthest from her thoughts; she was too nervously inclined to discuss personal matters.

"Politics?" repeated Mrs. Porter. "You’ll find no argument there, Vera; I’ve lived too long in Washington not to float with the tide—mine are always Administration politics. But"—with a sudden sharp glance at her companion under lowered lids—"I am always interested in the tattle-tales of Cupid. Your sister Dorothy and my nephew Hugh don’t seem to be as good friends as formerly; what has estranged them?"

Vera’s fingers closed tightly over the arm of her chair and her answer was slow in coming. "Oh, they have frequent bickerings." She shrugged her shoulders. "Perhaps the[181] present tiff is more serious—for the moment."

Mrs. Porter looked relieved. "I hope you are right, for I have quite set my heart on that being a match. Do you know," in a sudden burst of confidence very foreign to her usually reserved nature, "I was beginning to fear that Bruce Brainard’s horrible death might have been at the bottom of the estrangement."

"Oh, Mrs. Porter!" Vera’s shocked expression drew instant explanation and Mrs. Porter, in her excitement, failed to observe Vera’s growing agitation.

"The atmosphere of this place since the tragedy distorts every action, every idea!" she began incoherently. "I do my utmost to forget it, but I can think of nothing else. And you found Bruce dead on Tuesday morning—only forty-eight hours ago!"

"It seems a lifetime!" confessed Vera wearily.

"And that stupid detective has done nothing," fumed Mrs. Porter. "In the face of no evidence, he still thinks Bruce was murdered."

"I don’t catch your meaning." And Vera looked as puzzled as she felt.

[182]"Why, if Bruce had been murdered there would have been some clue; whereas, the lack of evidence against anyone proves that Bruce must have committed suicide."

"Where did he get the razor?" The question almost leaped from Vera, and she bent forward in her eagerness to catch the other’s answer.

"Brought it with him." But Mrs. Porter’s eyes had shifted and Vera could not read their expression. "Listen, Vera, let us argue this matter out—I’m tired of beating about the bush!" Mrs. Porter’s air of candor would have convinced anyone not familiar with her moods and tenses—Vera gazed at her and remained discreetly silent. "I know that every door and window in the floor and the cellar were locked, because I accompanied Hugh when he went the rounds to see that the house was securely fastened on Monday night. Even the police admit that no one broke into the house."

"Yet they contend that Bruce Brainard was murdered." Vera spoke almost without her own volition, and bit her lip until the blood came, but the words could not be recalled.

[183]Mrs. Porter’s hand flew to her heart as if to still its rapid beating. "Yes," she agreed dully, the false animation of a moment before deserting her. "Who in this household would have a motive for killing Bruce?"

Her question met with no response, and as the pause lengthened they avoided looking at each other; twice Mrs. Porter tried to speak, but her voice failed her, and she rose uncertainly to her feet. Vera sat as if carved from marble, and even the opening of the library door failed to draw her attention.

"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Porter," said Mrs. Hall, advancing toward the desk. "I think you had better send for a physician for Mr. Craig."

"Craig! Is he worse?" Mrs. Porter turned imploring eyes on the day nurse.

"I don’t like his symptoms," replied Mrs. Hall, noncommittally. "And I dare not take the responsibility of treating him until a physician has seen him. Please don’t delay in sending for one."

By that time Vera was on her feet. "Can I be of assistance?" she asked, addressing Mrs. Hall.

"Not now; perhaps later," responded the[184] day nurse. "Mrs. Porter, please tell me whom you desire called in, now that Dr. Noyes is no longer here, and Miss Deane can telephone for him."

Mrs. Porter turned an agonized face toward them. "No, I’ll speak to Dr. Thorne myself. He has been highly recommended to me and is the nearest physician this side of Alexandria. I never expected," she added bitterly, picking up the telephone, "to ask any of his family to assist me, but Craig’s need is paramount. Don’t wait, Mrs. Hall." And the day nurse hastened back to her patient.

Vera was on the point of following her when Mrs. Porter signed to her to wait, and she listened with the keenest attention to the one-sided conversation on the telephone. Mrs. Porter finally hung up the receiver in a rage.

"His servant’s a fool!" she declared, laying an impatient finger on the bell which connected with the servants’ hall. "He doesn’t know where Dr. Thorne is or when he will be back. Ah, Murray," as that worthy appeared, "go at once to Thornedale and find Dr. Thorne and bring him here," she wound up, sinking down on the couch, and a burst of[185] tears relieved her overwrought feelings. "Oh, Craig, Craig—my dear, dear boy!"

Murray, seeing Vera spring to Mrs. Porter’s side, vanished, and, being impressed with the urgency of his errand, never stopped to get his overcoat, and in a hatless condition made his way across the fields. He was just entering the carriage drive to Thornedale when he descried the doctor coming along the highway, and he started forward to meet him. He was almost within hailing distance when a man stepped from behind a clump of bushes and called him by name.

The footman stared at the newcomer as if unable to believe his eyes.

"So it’s yourself!" he ejaculated, walking slowly around him. "And who do you wish to see, sir?"

"Miss Vera Deane, of course." Both the words and the emphasis were not lost on Beverly Thorne, whose rapid approach had gone unnoticed, and he contemplated the newcomer with mixed feelings as he strode past them, Murray never even seeing him.

[186]
CHAPTER XII
DETECTIVE MITCHELL ASKS QUESTIONS
CONTRARY to Vera’s idea of a "chatty" motor drive into Washington, Millicent and her two guests made the trip almost in silence. Hugh Wyndham, alone, seemed to find the silence irksome, but his efforts to force conversation met with no encouragement and he finally lapsed into silence. It was not until the limousine had crossed Long Bridge and was bowling along the asphalted streets of Washington that Millicent broke her moody silence.

"Do you wish to go direct to the Tribune office, Dorothy?" she asked, picking up the speaking-tube.

Dorothy consulted her wrist watch. "Perhaps I had better; it is later than I thought. If I get through my work early we can stop at Brentano’s on the way home."

"Let me go there for you," suggested Wyndham. "What book do you wish?"

[187]"No book, thanks; Vera wants me to order a hundred of her visiting-cards struck off." As she spoke Dorothy opened her handbag and taking out her purse offered a Treasury bill to Wyndham. He waved it aside.

"Pay for the cards when they are finished," he exclaimed.

"Please take it," insisted Dorothy, closing her bag with a snap. "Vera objects to charge accounts."

"If you wish me to." Wyndham pocketed the money just as the limousine drew up at the curb, and throwing aside the lap-robe he jumped out and assisted Dorothy to the sidewalk before the chauffeur could leave his seat. "Are you coming with me to Brentano’s, Millicent?" he asked, seeing that his cousin made no move to leave the car.

Millicent contented herself with a nod of assent and Wyndham hastened after Dorothy who, not waiting, had already entered the office building. Wyndham’s voice brought her to a stand near the elevator shaft.

"Dorothy"—he lowered his voice and drew her to one side of the corridor where there was no danger of their conversation being overheard—"I implore you not to distrust me."

[188]"I don’t, Hugh."

"Then why do you avoid me—why refuse to see me alone?" with suppressed vehemence. "Your behavior, Dorothy, hurts me cruelly."

"You are mistaken." She glanced upward, and her clear eyes did not falter in their direct gaze, while a wave of color mantled her cheeks. "I think of you—dream of you—" She checked herself as she saw the passion which lighted his eyes. "This is no place—go," as two men approached. "Don’t keep Millicent waiting." And with that parting injunction she turned to greet the city editor.

"You are just in time, Miss Deane," exclaimed the city editor, as Wyndham walked away. "Mr. Reynolds," indicating his companion, "has a new lot of photographs for you to choose from for the Sunday paper. Here’s the elevator." And hardly giving the outgoing passengers an opportunity to leave, the energetic city editor hustled Dorothy and the photographer into the elevator, and on arriving at their floor he accompanied them into Dorothy’s office. "Have you a photograph of Millicent Porter?" he asked, taking up the prints which Reynolds laid on Dorothy’s desk.

[189]"No," was the photographer’s glum response. "Mr. Wyndham called at the studio early Tuesday morning and forbade us giving copies to the press."

The city editor dropped the prints in disgust and turned to Dorothy. "Are you sure you have no picture of Miss Porter in your desk?"

"I am positive that I have not." Dorothy pulled up a chair and examined the glossy photographs. "Perhaps my predecessor used one of Miss Porter. If so, the cut will be on file with the others."

"Her name is in the card index, but the cut itself is missing," grumbled the city editor. "Wish I knew who took it. I’d fire him. We haven’t had such a sensational murder as Brainard’s in years, and I can’t lay my hands on a single photograph of the principals involved."

"Who are chiefly involved?" Dorothy’s face was screened by the large print which she was studying with interest.

"Chiefly involved?" The city editor knitted his brows. "Well, I should say all the Porter household is involved more or less, but I believe that English doctor, Noyes, who[190] skipped out of the country so opportunely, knows a thing or two which might aid in tracing the murderer. And," he added, warming to his subject, "if I’d been on that coroner’s jury I would have made Millicent Porter talk."

Dorothy smiled with her lips only, her eyes fixed steadily on the pretty woman in the photograph. "Possibly the jury found Miss Porter had nothing to say," she remarked.

"Nothing to say? A girl whose fiance has just been murdered?" The city editor laughed loudly as if enjoying a huge joke. "Miss Deane, you’re dippy."

"Perhaps; but I fail to see a reason for dragging Miss Porter further into the limelight. Why center publicity about her?"

"Because she’s good material for a ‘sob’ story, if nothing more; but I have a hunch"—he lowered his voice to a confidential pitch—"that she is going to be the big feature of the case before the Brainard mystery is cleared up. So long," and he left the room.

Reynolds heaved a sigh of relief which was echoed by Dorothy. "Now we can get along with our work, Miss Deane; how will these photographs do for a layout of the leaders[191] of the ultra-smart set?" placing a number of prints together; and Dorothy soon became absorbed in making her selections.

After the departure of the photographer, twenty minutes later, Dorothy wrote her directions on the back of each photograph and had just completed her task when the office boy entered and laid a "flimsy" on her desk.

"Take these photographs to the engraver and tell him I must have the cuts by tomorrow afternoon," she directed, and picked up the "flimsy." It proved to be a garbled account of Millicent Porter sent out by one of the news agencies and laid great stress upon her wealth and the social prominence of her family. Dorothy frowned as she crumpled it in her hand, then thinking better of her action she smoothed out the "flimsy" and carefully pigeonholed it.

Dorothy’s thoughts were far from her work as she mechanically carried out the daily office routine. A talk with a White House usher elicited the news that the President was playing golf and might go to the theater that night; a chat with a confidential clerk in the Department of State provided her with[192] the list of guests at a diplomatic dinner to be given that night by the Secretary of State; but her other telephone calls drew blank; and Dorothy, after looking over the meager items chronicled in the social columns of the afternoon papers, welcomed the ring of the telephone. It proved to be a long-distance call from Albany, N. Y., giving her the information that a Congressman’s wife was receiving at the Governor’s reception, describing the gown which she would wear, and stating that she desired to have it fully written up in the Morning Tribune.

Half an hour later Dorothy was correcting her typewritten copy when the door was jerked unceremoniously open, and the city editor walked in, followed by Detective Mitchell. Dorothy’s heart sank at sight of the city editor’s aggressive air; previous encounters had given her an inkling of his bullying disposition, and the presence of Mitchell did not look propitious.

"See here, Miss Deane, why haven’t you informed me that you are visiting Millicent Porter?" demanded the city editor.

"I did not think the news would interest you." Dorothy laid down her copy and[193] nodded coolly to the detective. "Good afternoon, Mr. Mitchell."

"Interest me?" stormed the city editor. "Here I’ve been trying vainly to get a line on what’s doing out at the Porter mansion; every reporter refused admission, and you staying there—" He swallowed hard. "Write a fifteen-hundred-word human interest story for tomorrow’s paper, get an interview if possible from Mrs. Porter and her daughter—but remember, I want a story with meat in it—and don’t you come back to this office without it." And his clenched fist, descending on the desk by way of emphasis, jarred the scissors and paste pot out of their accustomed places.

Dorothy’s expression changed. "I must remind you, Mr. Harding, that I am the head of my department and responsible to the managing editor only. If you desire to detail me to a special assignment you must speak to him first." There was truth in what she said, and Harding hesitated. Dorothy turned to Mitchell. "Do you wish to see me?"

Mitchell cast an amused glance at the indignant city editor whose florid complexion rivaled his red necktie in point of vivid color, then pulled forward a chair and made himself[194] comfortable. Harding glanced about, and, finding no other chair in the small room, propped himself against the side of the desk and the wall.

"Go ahead, Mitchell," he said pugnaciously. "Tell her what you told me."

Dorothy glanced from one to the other, her calm demeanor covering a rapidly beating heart. What had the detective confided to Harding? What had he really discovered relating to Bruce Brainard’s death?

Mitchell took a paper from his pocket and, reaching up, bent the portable electric lamp so that its light fell directly upon the desk and incidentally shone full in Dorothy’s face. If she detected the maneuver she gave no indication of it as she leaned back in her revolving-chair and waited politely for the detective to speak.

"Miss Deane, you understand wireless?" questioned Mitchell.

"I do."

"And Miss Millicent Porter also?"

"Yes. We were both taught wireless at the National Service School, the woman’s preparedness camp at Chevy Chase, Maryland."

[195]"Have you kept up wireless instruction since then?"

"Yes, we both took the commercial examination last fall."

"And you can operate the marine wireless at the Porter mansion?"

Dorothy looked at Mitchell steadily. What was he driving at?

"Yes, we have practiced on the wireless there," she acknowledged.

"When was the marine wireless outfit installed there?"

"I don’t know."

"Last summer?" persisted Mitchell, annoyed by the curtness of her tone.

"Oh, no, before then."

"Then it was not erected solely for Miss Porter’s benefit?"

"No. I believe Mr. Craig Porter had it installed before he went abroad to join the French aviation corps, and Mrs. Porter never had it taken down."

"I see." Mitchell stroked his chin thoughtfully. "Do you know the instrument’s sending capacity, Miss Deane?"

She thought before answering. "I believe about one hundred miles, but I am not certain.[196] Miss Porter and I generally used the instrument to receive messages."

"But you have sent messages?"

"Yes, occasionally."

"To whom did you send a message last night, Miss Deane?"

Dorothy’s reply was prompt. "To no one."

Mitchell smiled, not unkindly. "I’m afraid denial won’t do any good. I saw you and Miss Porter in the attic at the Porter mansion last night."

"You saw us?" Dorothy’s surprise was unmistakable, and Mitchell chuckled. "Where were you?"

"In Dr. Thorne’s dining-room, the window of which overlooks that side of the Porter mansion." There was a brief pause, and then Mitchell repeated his former question. "To whom did you send a message last night?"

"I sent no wireless message last night," reiterated Dorothy.

"Oh, so it was Miss Porter." A self-satisfied smile crossed the detective’s lips, and Dorothy’s heart sank as she racked her brain in an effort to puzzle out the meaning of his questioning her on such a subject. What had the wireless to do with his investigation of the[197] mystery surrounding Bruce Brainard’s death? She sat forward in her chair as Mitchell commenced speaking again. "I saw you both in the attic earlier in the evening, as you did not pull down the shades. About midnight I saw one of you return, but as only a candle was burning near the window at that time, I could not be certain whether it was you or Miss Porter." He paused and looked inquiringly at Dorothy.

"You say it was about midnight? Are you quite certain, Mr. Mitchell, that you did not fall asleep and dream all this?"

"I did not," answered Mitchell shortly, ruffled by her manner of receiving his news. "In proof of it the Arlington Radio Station caught Miss Porter’s message, but not the name of the person she was sending it to."

"Ah, indeed?" skeptically. "And what was the message?"

"‘Peace and tranquillity.’"

Dorothy’s reception of his answer startled the detective—she burst into peal on peal of laughter.

"Excuse me," she stammered as soon as she could speak. "You were so serious and—and—" Again she laughed whole-heartedly.[198] "You have unearthed a mare’s nest, Mr. Mitchell."

Mitchell’s rising color testified to his displeasure. "Kindly tell me the meaning of those three words, Miss Deane," he demanded.

"They bear the customary meaning attributed to them," retorted Dorothy, her eyes still twinkling. "The phrase you quoted is frequently used by Miss Porter and myself for practice work in sending messages."

The detective watched her in angry silence, then started to address her just as the door was pushed quietly open and Hugh Wyndham stopped on the threshold. Neither man observed him as they faced Dorothy, their backs turned to the entrance.

"Your explanation is very pat, Miss Deane," said Mitchell. "Perhaps you can also explain what it was Miss Millicent Porter threw into an unused well late yesterday afternoon."

Dorothy gazed silently at her questioner, then her glance traveled upward until it rested on Wyndham, and her breath forsook her. The gathering wrath in Wyndham’s eyes as he took a menacing step toward the[199] unconscious detective acted like a douche of cold water on Dorothy’s benumbed wits.

"I can explain," she announced, her voice quivering with subdued excitement. "Miss Porter dreads publicity. She threw a cut into the well, the only cut ever made from one of her photographs, so that her picture would not appear in a newspaper."

"I-n-deed," drawled Mitchell. "And where did Miss Porter get this—eh—cut?"

"I gave it to her."

Her words brought a bellow from Harding. "What! do you mean to say you stole the cut from this office and gave it to Miss Porter?"

"I did."

Harding pounded the desk. "Where’s your honesty?" he roared. "Where’s your loyalty to the newspaper that employs you?"

"My loyalty belongs to the paper so long as it does not conflict with my loyalty to my friends," answered Dorothy. "As for my honesty—I have paid for the cut."

"D-mn the money! It isn’t a question of money," he retorted thickly. "You are fired, understand—fired!"

Dorothy was on her feet instantly. "It is[200] the managing editor who dismisses me, Mr. Harding," she reminded him, and turned with dignity to Mitchell. "As I must turn in my copy, Mr. Mitchell, you will have to excuse me." And closing her roll-top desk she picked up her coat and hat and joined Wyndham in the city room, where he had preceded her. She tossed her manuscript to a copy reader, and, after exchanging a word with the foreman, left the office, Wyndham in tow.

The Porter limousine had driven off but a scant five minutes when Inspector North entered the Tribune building and went direct to the managing editor’s office, only to be told that he would not be there until after dinner. The inspector was making for the society editor’s office when he spied the city editor emerging from it.

"Hello, Harding," he hailed. "Miss Deane in?"

"No, just gone." Harding kicked a chair out of his way as a slight vent to his feelings. "Anything I can do for you, Inspector?"

"Yes. Tell me, is Miss Dorothy Deane in mourning?"

"Mourning? H—l, no! Say—" But the[201] inspector waved a friendly farewell as he hastened toward the elevator shaft, and Harding completed his sentence with another oath.

Inspector North was more fortunate in his next call, and found the Chief of the Secret Service comfortably seated in his office in the Treasury Department.

"I don’t usually bring ‘lost and found’ articles to you, Chief," he explained, taking a chair by the desk and drawing a leather handbag out of his overcoat pocket. "But I’m puzzled. What do you think of this?"

Chief Connor turned the bag over and over. "Good leather," he remarked. "Unmarked. Where did you get the bag?"

"It was turned in by a conductor on the Mt. Pleasant line who found it in his car. Open it, Chief."

Connor started to do so and the catch caught, then as he used more strength it flew open with such suddenness that half its contents rolled to the floor. Inspector North instantly retrieved each article.

"Is there nothing but money?" asked Connor, contemplating the Treasury notes which his companion laid on his desk.

"That’s all, except this." And the inspector[202] handed him a black-edged card. Connor read the block lettering with interest:

Miss Vera Deane

Graduate nurse

Making no further comment, Chief Connor sorted each bill in its proper denomination, and in a few minutes had several neat piles of gold and greenback certificates of varying amounts stacked in front of him. Taking up a microscope he examined each bill, testing the quality of the paper between his fingers, and in certain instances he jotted down the check letter, series, and charter numbers.

"Has Miss Deane notified Headquarters of the loss of her bag?" he asked finally. "There is quite a tidy sum of money here—three hundred dollars."

"So I observed," answered Inspector North dryly. "No, Miss Deane has not notified Headquarters; on the contrary, I telephoned her of its present whereabouts, and she denied ownership of the bag."

"Indeed!" Connor sat erect and pressed his desk buzzer, and an assistant appeared from an inner office. "Examine these bills,[203] Neale," he directed, and waited until the operative had disappeared with the money. "So Miss Deane denies the bag is hers. Did you tell her its contents?"

"No. I only said it contained her black-edged visiting-card." North hesitated. "Miss Deane’s sister is society editor of the Tribune. I have just learned at the office that the young ladies are not now in mourning. From another source I heard that Judge Deane, their father, died about seven years ago and his wife did not long survive him. Of course it is possible that some friend of hers had one of her old visiting-cards instead of her own in the bag, especially as Miss Deane declares her bag is in her own possession at home."

"That is a plausible theory, but—" It was Connor’s turn to hesitate, and the inspector broke the silence.

"It is strange that the real owner doesn’t claim the bag, considering that its disappearance involves the loss of three hundred dollars," he said thoughtfully. "It’s that puzzle which has brought me to you. Few people lose such a sum of money in a street car without raising a fuss about it."

"My dear North, the presence of the money[204] is obviously the reason why the bag goes unclaimed," retorted Connor, and the inspector leaned forward excitedly.

"You mean—?"

"That many of the bank notes are counterfeit. The owner of that bag will be the last to claim it. Well, Neale, what have you to report?"

The operative advanced to the desk and placed the Treasury notes again on the desk with memorandum attached.

"One hundred and seventy-five dollars of this is counterfeit." Neale selected a ten-dollar note and showed it to Chief Connor. "This is apparently printed from photomechanical plates and retouched with a graver. It is an exceedingly dangerous counterfeit."

Chief Connor nodded assent as he examined the note, then looked inquiringly at his assistant. "Well, Neale?"

"‘Gentleman Charlie,’" was the latter’s only comment, and Chief Connor smiled.

"Exactly, Neale. Issue special warnings to all banks. ‘Gentleman Charlie’ has resumed operations."

[205]
CHAPTER XIII
THE RED HERRING
THE front door of the Porter mansion opened with such precipitancy that Vera Deane, on the point of going upstairs, paused with one foot on the bottom step. A glimpse of Murray’s usually stolid countenance, as he stood in the doorway, indicated news out of the ordinary, for his eyes were open to twice their accustomed size and his mouth was agape.

"It’s you, miss!" he ejaculated in vast relief at sight of her. "The doctor wants you."

Vera changed color. Why should Beverly Thorne want her? To be sure Mrs. Porter had sent for him to attend Craig Porter, but why should he inquire for her—unless he desired to talk to her in her professional character? But he was aware that Craig Porter was attended by a day nurse, while she, Vera, did not go on duty until eight o’clock in the evening.

[206]Vera had slight time to conjecture, for Murray was brushed aside and a tall man advanced into the hall to greet her. As he lifted his hat Vera stared at him in mute amazement, and it was not until her hand was clasped warmly that she recovered her voice.

"Dr. Noyes!" she gasped. "You have returned, after all!"

"So it seems." Alan Noyes’ grim smile was brief. "A word with you, Miss Deane, before I see Mrs. Porter."

Murray, engaged in lighting one of the gas brackets, paused in his labors as a sound from outside the house reached him.

"Doctor, you and Miss Deane had better step into the drawing-room," he said, hurrying to the front door after a peek out of the window. "The limousine has just stopped outside, and Miss Millicent will be here in a minute."

His words, however, instead of hastening Noyes’ footsteps toward the drawing-room caused him to loiter in the hall, then sighing heavily he accompanied Vera into the drawing-room just as Murray opened the front door.

"Miss Deane"—Noyes stepped close to her[207] side—"what are the latest developments in the Brainard"—he hesitated—"tragedy?"

"So far as I know there are no new developments, except those published in the morning newspapers." Vera watched him narrowly, and noticed the worn lines in his face and his harassed air. "The police appear nonplussed."

"Have they discovered any clues?" Noyes’ anxiety was palpable, and Vera looked at him with increased earnestness.

"I am not in their confidence, doctor," she said quietly. "If they have discovered new clues I am not aware of it."

Noyes took a quick turn up and down the room, and thereby imperiled numerous pieces of bric-à-brac as, blindly ignoring the congested arrangement of Mrs. Porter’s choice heirlooms, he thought over Vera’s statements.

"Have they decided whether Brainard’s death was suicide or murder?" he inquired, pausing in front of her.

"I believe they consider that—that—he did not kill himself."

Noyes listened to her halting sentence with marked impatience.

"In other words, you mean that the police[208] believe Brainard was murdered?" She nodded assents. "I gathered that was the consensus of opinion when reading the morning newspapers. And what is your opinion, Miss Deane?"

The question was unexpected, and Vera drew back. "I am not qualified to judge," she commenced confusedly. "From the nature of the wound—"

"You take it to be murder?"

"No, no," with unexpected vehemence, and Noyes eyed her sharply. "A man can nick himself with a razor on either side of his throat, and no one be able to tell whether the wound was self-inflicted or done by another with intent to kill."

The twilight had deepened, and Noyes experienced difficulty in reading Vera’s expression.

"That does not seem to be the opinion of the deputy coroner, and he performed the autopsy," Noyes said dryly. "He affirms that the wound could not have been self-inflicted."

"But you are a surgeon," broke in Vera impetuously. "What did you think when you saw the wound?"

[209]Noyes regarded her with singular intentness. "You forget that I left this house before the discovery of Brainard’s death."

"True, you were to sail on the St. Louis"—Vera never took her eyes from him. "The steamer has sailed, but you—are here."

"A self-evident fact," impatiently. "I missed the boat."

"Oh!" The ejaculation was faint, but Noyes started and turned red.

"Enough of myself," he commenced brusquely. "How is Craig Porter?"

It was Vera’s turn to redden; she had completely forgotten her patient in her astonishment at Alan Noyes’ unexpected appearance. "Mrs. Hall has just informed Mrs. Porter that Craig appears to be worse, and she has sent for Dr. Beverly Thorne."

"Indeed? I wonder—" He did not complete his sentence, but fell into moody silence which Vera forbore to break. Mrs. Hall was with Craig Porter; she was not needed in the sick room for nearly three hours, and, except for dinner, her time until eight o’clock was her own. The alteration in Alan Noyes puzzled her; his pleasant reserved manner had given place to brusque inquisitiveness but indifferently[210] masked. What had brought about the change? Speculating was idle work, and she was about to address him when he spoke.

"I have not inquired for Miss Porter; is she well?"

Vera failed to observe in the dim light the effort the question cost Noyes, but she was quick to note the formality of his query. Four days before he would have said "Millicent." A lovers’ quarrel would explain his peculiar behavior and altered demeanor; but he and Millicent had been good friends, nothing more. Vera frowned in perplexity, and her reply was tinged with stiffness.

"Miss Porter appears quite well."

Noyes peered at her in the gloom in uncertainty. "Appears well," he muttered under his breath. "Has she—"

He was interrupted by the pulling back of the portières of the hall doorway, and Millicent Porter walked in, her light footfall being deadened by the heavy rugs. An exclamation, quickly stifled, escaped Noyes, and he pulled his officer’s cape more closely about him, then turned and faced her.

"Why are you staying here in the dark, Vera?" she inquired. "Oh, I beg pardon,"[211] perceiving for the first time that Vera was not alone; then as her eyes grew accustomed to the dim light she recognized Alan Noyes. A wave of emotion, instantly suppressed, shook her, and, laying one trembling hand on the nearest chair back, she waited in silence; a silence spent by Vera in glancing from one to the other, her perplexity deepening; what had arisen to estrange the surgeon and Millicent? And if they had quarreled, why had he returned to be a guest in her mother’s house? Vera’s expression betrayed her doubts, and Noyes, who had edged imperceptibly nearer, perceived her hesitancy.

"Good afternoon, Miss Porter," he said, and the effort to repress all emotion made his voice devoid of feeling.

"Good evening," responded Millicent with equal coolness. "It is Dr. Noyes, is it not?"

Noyes flushed hotly. "Yes, I returned, I—"

Mrs. Porter’s entrance broke in on his stammered explanations. She wasted no words, but advanced with outstretched hand.

"Welcome back," she exclaimed in cordial greeting. "I could hardly believe Murray[212] when he said you were here. Have you seen Craig?"

"Not yet, I—" Noyes brightened perceptibly at her cordiality. "I was just telling your daughter and Miss Deane that I missed my steamer and—"

"Came back here, naturally," put in Mrs. Porter blandly. "We would not pardon your going elsewhere, would we, Millicent?" addressing her daughter who had stepped over to the mantelpiece and was absently fingering one of the Sèvres vases.

"No, certainly not," she remarked without turning around. Mrs. Porter’s eyebrows met in a frown, but whatever rejoinder she would have made was cut short by an announcement from Murray as he waited in the doorway.

"Dr. Thorne is here to see you, madam."

"Good gracious! I had forgotten." Mrs. Porter moved toward the door. "Wait for me, Dr. Noyes. I will come back at once." And she walked majestically into the hall, Murray holding aside the portières for her. He was about to release the portières when Millicent, without a glance at Noyes, who had watched her every movement, hurried into the hall. Apparently unconscious of[213] Vera’s continued presence, Noyes turned restlessly to the nearest window and looked out with unseeing eyes. Vera stared at him, in indecision, for a brief second, then left the room. But in the hall she found her way to the staircase blocked by Mrs. Porter’s ample figure and paused, not liking to brush past her, and at that instant Beverly Thorne appeared from the reception-room where Murray had ushered him on his arrival.

"Good evening." His bow and greeting included both Mrs. Porter and Vera, then he addressed the older woman directly. "My man-servant, Cato, told me that you had telephoned for me, and I came at once."

"Thank you." Mrs. Porter was graciousness itself, but the smiling eyes hid intent watchfulness. "I find that the message was telephoned you prematurely; I am sorry to have troubled you—" A gesture completed the sentence.

"You mean"—Thorne advanced nearer—"that you do not require my professional services for your son?"

"Yes, doctor." Mrs. Porter’s eyes shifted to the hat stand where Thorne’s hat and overcoat and medicine bag were lying. "It was[214] good of you to come so promptly, but since I telephoned you my son’s regular physician has arrived, and so—"

Thorne took a step toward the hat stand, then paused. "May I ask you to give a message to Dr. Washburn—"

"Dr. Washburn is not here," interjected Mrs. Porter hastily. "I refer to Dr. Alan Noyes, who has just returned." She had a carrying voice and her words reached other ears than her companions’, for as she ceased speaking, Detective Mitchell emerged from the back hall, an eager light in his eyes.

"You say Dr. Noyes is here," he exclaimed, ignoring manners in his interest. "Then I must see him at once."

"I fail to see why," retorted Mrs. Porter, whose violent start at sight of the detective was not lost on Thorne. "Dr. Noyes is here to attend my son, and his presence is required in the sick room."

"I must have a word with him. I will not detain him long." Mitchell’s insistence was not to be denied. "Where is Dr. Noyes?"

Mrs. Porter stiffened, but her angry retort I was checked by a voice behind her.

"I am here," announced Noyes, looking out[215] on the group from between the drawing-room portières. "Who wants me?"

"I do, Detective Mitchell of the Central Office." Mitchell scanned the surgeon’s face with close attention. "We can’t talk here," glancing disapprovingly about the large square hall.

"You can use the library." But the permission did not come graciously from Mrs. Porter; she never took kindly to having her plans thwarted even in trifling details. "Make your interview as brief as possible, Mr. Mitchell, as I desire to have Dr. Noyes see my son."

"I will come upstairs in a few minutes," promised Noyes, before the detective could make reply, and, stepping past Vera, who had been a silent witness of the scene, the Englishman led the way to the library. Thorne, who had picked up his hat and overcoat preparatory to leaving the house, was detained by a gesture from Mitchell.

"Come with us, doctor," he said, and after a moment’s hesitancy Thorne went with them, ignoring Mrs. Porter’s indignant glance and half-extended hand to stop him.

The library lamps were lighted, and the fire[216] replenished by Murray some minutes before burned brightly on the hearth. Noyes, his manner suggesting the host rather than a guest in the house, signed to Mitchell to draw up a chair, then glanced inquiringly at Thorne, and the detective hastened to introduce them.

"This is Dr. Beverly Thorne who is assisting me in my investigation of the murder of Mr. Bruce Brainard," he said, and the two men bowed. "Now, Dr. Noyes," as Thorne took a chair near at hand, "let’s be brief. Why did you leave here Tuesday morning?"

"To catch the steamer St. Louis—but I reached New York too late."

"Humph!" The detective eyed him searchingly. "It is not on record that you tried to catch the steamer. I had the piers and booking-offices of the steamship companies watched."

"Did you?" Noyes’ raised eyebrows expressed polite surprise. "Why?"

"Because I desired certain information," tartly. "Why did you leave here without bidding Mrs. Porter good-by, or the nurses?"

"I said good night to Mrs. Porter and her daughter on Monday night—they both were aware of my plans—as for the nurses,[217] Mrs. Hall and Miss Deane, they had my written instructions and Dr. Washburn was to take over the case in my absence."

Mitchell looked at him steadfastly. "Then you claim that your departure on Tuesday morning was not on the spur of the moment?"

"I do."

Mitchell shot an inquiring glance at Thorne, who promptly joined in the conversation.

"I understand you were expecting a cable from England," he began. And Noyes turned instantly and gave him his full attention. "Did you receive that cable?"

"Yes."

"At what hour?"

"Let me see." Noyes thought a minute. "I imagine it was about twenty minutes of three Tuesday morning when I was called on the long-distance telephone and the cable message repeated to me."

"Twenty minutes of three"—Thorne did some rapid calculating, and when he spoke again his manner was grave. "It was at that hour or thereabouts that Deputy Coroner McPherson contends Brainard was murdered. Did you hear no sound from his room?"

"No," shortly. "I spent most of the night[218] in this library, and this old house, with its thick brick walls, is sound-proof."

"Quite true," acknowledged Thorne, and his manner showed disappointment. "Too bad, doctor; I had hoped that you might give us some light on Brainard’s death, as you were up and awake practically all night on Monday."

"There was one other person up, also—Miss Deane," volunteered Noyes, and Thorne’s piercing eyes bored into him. "Even she, in the next room, heard no sound—while I was down here."

"How did you know Miss Deane never detected any sound in Brainard’s bedroom?" demanded Mitchell swiftly.

"I read it in the newspapers."

"That brings me to another point." Mitchell bent forward in his chair in his eagerness. "You left here early Tuesday morning, ostensibly to catch the steamer St. Louis, which you say you missed—then where have you been staying since then, and how did you leave this country place early Tuesday morning without anyone seeing you, and get into Washington?"

"That is my affair, Mr. Mitchell, and I[219] question your right to quiz me on the subject." Noyes’ face hardened, and there was a glint of anger in his eyes.

"Here’s my authority." Mitchell displayed his badge. "I’m in charge of this case, and I consider you a material witness, and as such you are amenable to the law."

"You forget I am a British subject."

"That won’t prevent my getting legal authority through the State Department, if necessary, to summon you to court when this case goes to trial," retorted Mitchell. "Take it from me, you can’t dodge the issue."

"I am not striving to dodge it." Noyes spoke with angry emphasis. "Surely, gentlemen, you are not striving to fasten the crime on me?"

Thorne, watching him intently, wondered at the almost fanatical light that leaped for an instant into Noyes’ deep sunken eyes, then died out as Mitchell responded.

"I am seeking information to clear up the mystery surrounding Brainard’s death," he said roughly. "If it involves you, so much the worse—for you."

"Tut! No threats are necessary," broke in Thorne. "You go too far, Mitchell," meeting[220] the detective’s stony glare with composure. Then he turned courteously to Noyes. "You and Miss Deane are the only ones known to have been up and about this house on Monday night, between midnight and early morning; and we are seeking to learn from every source the identity of the third person who was also up and about—"

"A third person?" Noyes looked at him, startled. "What third person do you refer to?"

"The murderer," dryly. "The quest sifts down to you and Miss Deane, doctor; Miss Deane has cleared herself of suspicion"—with emphasis—"while you—"

"Have not." Noyes eyed his inquisitors with sharp intentness. "Kindly state your reasons for intimating that I killed a man whom I only met for the first time on Monday evening—barely ten hours before he was found murdered in his bed."

"It’s a bit unusual to give reasons," said Mitchell dubiously, but a nod from Thorne reassured him, and he continued, more quickly: "You admit you were up all night Monday, doctor; you disappeared early Tuesday morning without leaving word how or[221] where you were going; you won’t tell us where you spent the past few days; and you haven’t told us what brings you back to this house today."

"Surely, the fact of my voluntary return clears me of all suspicion," argued Noyes heatedly.

"Not necessarily," retorted Thorne. "Your actions lead us to suppose one of two motives inspired you to disappear so promptly Tuesday morning before the discovery of Brainard’s murder. Don’t interrupt," as Noyes moved restlessly. "Either you were guilty or you were seeking to protect the guilty party." Noyes sat rigidly in his chair, his expression blank as Thorne paused and scanned him narrowly. "Now, doctor, which is it?"

Thorne’s question did not receive an immediate response, and the detective assumed a self-congratulatory air as he waited for Noyes to speak, but Thorne, never taking his eyes from the Englishman, waited with concealed anxiety for his next words. They were slow in coming; apparently Noyes was feeling his way.

"Sifted down to bed-rock, you have nothing[222] against me except an unavoidable absence of body at the time Brainard’s murder was discovered. My so-called ‘disappearance’ was but a coincidence," said Noyes finally, and he looked at Thorne. "I understand you are a surgeon."

"I am."

"Then you must be aware that cutting a man’s throat is a difficult operation." Noyes spoke slowly, impressively. "According to the newspaper accounts which I read, Brainard’s throat was cut from right to left, and that he was found lying on the right side of the bed; therefore, if such was the case, the wound must have been inflicted by a right-handed man."

"Do you mean to claim as your defense that you are left-handed?" demanded Mitchell.

"No, not originally left-handed." Noyes threw back the officer’s cape which he still wore, and disclosed an empty coat sleeve pinned across his chest. "I left my right arm on a battlefield of France," he added.

There was a long silence broken by a scream from the hall. Springing to his feet Mitchell darted through the open door and[223] down the hall, Noyes and Thorne at his heels. All three paused at sight of Millicent Porter on the lower step of the staircase.

"My papers!" she gasped. "Someone has stolen my papers!"

Noyes’ left arm supported her as she staggered and almost fell. Thorne, standing somewhat in the background, whistled low at sight of the Englishman’s expression as he bent above Millicent.

"So—the red herring across the trail," he muttered below his breath, and started violently at finding Vera Deane at his elbow.

[224]
CHAPTER XIV
PRO AND CON
THE dining-room at Thornedale Lodge looked particularly cozy in the soft lamplight, and old black Cato, surveying the room, could not repress a smile of subdued gratification. He considered himself "one ob de fam’ly," and it was doubtful if even Beverly Thorne had as great an affection for his ancestral home as did the old man who in his youth had been a slave on the Thorne plantation. Year in and year out he had worked on the place, being advanced from field hand to house servant in the early days following the Civil War, and when the fortunes of the Thornes were at the lowest ebb he had worked without wages so as to help "Old Miss" educate her boy, Beverly, and keep the homestead from going under the hammer. Illiterate, kindly, faithful, Cato epitomized the spirit of the old-style darky, to whose watchful care Southern men had not feared to leave[225] their wives and children when they went to fight with Robert Lee.

Cato had been true to every trust reposed in him. In his humble hands Mrs. Thorne had left the farming of the few acres still remaining to the once large estate, and but for his "truck garden" she would have gone without many necessities. And when Mrs. Thorne grew older and more feeble, Cato, when crops were bad, did not hesitate to do odd "chores" for neighboring farmers, receiving in return poultry or fresh vegetables which would be served to Mrs. Thorne as only Cato knew how to cook them. But even these delicacies could not prolong Mrs. Thorne’s feeble hold on life, and Cato, bottling up his own sorrow, turned to his "young marster" with the same blind devotion which had characterized his affection for Colonel and Mrs. Thorne.

It was found on reading Mrs. Thorne’s will that a small legacy left by her husband, who had pre-deceased her by twenty years, had been carefully hoarded against the day when Beverly Thorne would be old enough to go to a medical college, and true to his promise to his mother he eventually entered Johns Hopkins University, and was graduated with[226] honors; but the spirit of adventure, inherited from some doughty ancestor, had sent him far afield. In his absence Cato had acted as caretaker of the "lodge," and when Beverly once again entered the house he had exclaimed with delight at finding every piece of furniture, every heirloom, valued by his mother, in its accustomed place, and showing by its excellent condition the care lavished upon it by Cato.

Cato’s pleasure in the cozy appearance of the dining-room was shared by Detective Mitchell, who even forgot his impatience to see Beverly Thorne as he examined the handsome animal heads and skins hung on the walls.

"Fine trophies," he commented. "I had no idea Dr. Thorne was such a sportsman."

"He didn’t kill all de critters," acknowledged Cato. "Some has been in de fam’ly a long time, far’s I can remember, an’ dat’s consid’able far."

"So you’ve been in the family a long time?" Mitchell looked at him shrewdly. "Remember the Civil War?"

"Jes’ like it ware yesserday," promptly. "An’ seein’ yo’ all a-peepin’ an’ a-peerin’ at de[227] Porter house makes me think ob when de ‘rebs’ an’ de ‘Yanks’ uster camp out hyarabouts, an’ I’d wake in de mawnin’ an’ find de Yanks hyar an’ de nex’ day dey’d vamoose, an’ de rebs would come an’ take what was lef’ ob de fence rails ter make camp-fires."

"But they couldn’t run off with that stone wall toward the river," remarked Mitchell. "Pity the wall didn’t extend around the whole place and you wouldn’t have had so much trouble. But perhaps the wall wasn’t built in those days?"

"Oh, but ’twas. Ole Judge Porter, him dat was de gran’son ob de fust owner ob Dewdrop Inn, he had dat wall set dar ter cut off de ribber view, ’caise he hated de Thornes."

"But why?"

"’Caise his gran’mother jilted Colonel Thorne jes’ de day befo’ de weddin’, to marry his gran’daddy."

"Do you mean to say seriously that that dead and gone romance is at the bottom of the present-day feud between the Thornes and the Porters?"

"I ’spect it are." Cato crossed the room and adjusted a rug to his taste. "Ain’t nebber heard nuffin’ else."

[228]"And on the strength of that Mrs. Porter refuses to receive Dr. Thorne as a guest in her house," Mitchell laughed. "It doesn’t seem possible in these enlightened days that people will nurse a grievance nearly a hundred years old. And apparently Mrs. Porter intends passing the feud to the next generation, and keeping her daughter and Dr. Thorne at loggerheads." Mitchell jingled the keys in his pocket. "It has all the atmosphere of a Montague and Capulet affair—except for the lack of romance."

Old Cato scratched his bald head and the little tufts of wool still remaining, in perplexity.

"Dar’s a Montagu livin’ ’bout five miles from hyar, but I ain’t never heard tell ob no Capulets in de neighborhood. Was yo’ a-referrin’ to de Richard Montagu fam’ly?"

"No, no—only to an old play," explained Mitchell, and seeing Cato’s mystified air, added, "It would have been like the play had Dr. Thorne and Miss Millicent Porter fallen in love and the families opposed the match; that is what I meant."

"Yessir." Cato brightened. "Dat was what Ole Miss uster wonder ’bout, when little Miss[229] Milly uster slip ober hyar and eat hot gingerbread."

Mitchell’s scrutiny was not noticed by Cato as he replaced articles on the mantelpiece. "Am I mistaken—is there a romance between Dr. Thorne and Miss Porter?" he asked.

"I doan know what yo’ mean by romance," grumbled Cato. "Marse Beverly am mos’ twelve years older than Miss Milly; dey knowed each odder when chillen, an’ Marse Beverly made her whistles an’ things, an’ fo’ fear de old Judge Porter would fo’bid Miss Milly comin’ hyar to see Ole Miss we nebber tole no one."

Cato had an attentive listener as he ambled on who forbore to hurry him. "Has the friendship between Miss Porter and Dr. Thorne kept up?" he inquired finally.

Cato’s face altered. "No, an’ I didn’t ’spect such treatment of Marse Beverly from Miss Milly," he grumbled. "Now Marse Beverly’s back she ain’t never troubled ter recognize him on de road—an’ she set a store by his mother—I cain’t un’erstand these hyar women folk!"

"You are not alone in that," answered[230] Mitchell. "The police are puzzled by the behavior of Mrs. Porter and her daughter."

"So I heard tell." Cato’s tone was short; too late he repented of his garrulous confidences. In the pleasure of hearing his own voice he had forgotten that Mitchell was a detective. "I ’spects Marse Beverly won’t be back ’til nearly midnight; had yo’ better wait?"

"Surely, there’s no hurry." And in proof of his words Mitchell selected a comfortable chair. "Where did you say your master had gone?"

"Didn’t I tell yo’ he’d gone to Washington?" Cato’s manner waxed impatient, and Mitchell hastened to quiet him.

"So you did," he agreed. "But it seems to me that he ought to be back by now."

"Yo’ cain’t tell how dese hyar cyars is gwine ter run; sometimes Marse Beverly gets hyar right smart on time, an’ ag’in he don’t." Cato lugged out of his pocket an old-fashioned silver timepiece, rivaling a turnip in size, and his most prized possession. It had been the gift of Mrs. Thorne from among her heirlooms, and bore the inscription, "To our most trusted friend, Cato." The negro regarded[231] the face of the watch solemnly as he counted off the time. "’Most ten o’clock," he pronounced. "An’ dar’s Marse Beverly now," as the resounding bang of the front door echoed through the house. "I’ll jes’ tell him yo’ am hyar."

But Cato’s rheumatic limbs did not permit of rapid motion, and Thorne was halfway up the stairs before the negro’s hail reached him.

"Mister Mitchell am hyar," announced Cato.

"Here?" Thorne paused. "Where?"

"In de dinin’-room, sah," stepping aside as Thorne descended the staircase and crossed the living-room. "He’s been a-waitin’ some time."

Thorne quickened his footsteps. "Hello, Mitchell, I’m very glad you had the patience to wait for me," he exclaimed on reaching the dining-room. "Cato, bring some Scotch and vichy. Make yourself comfortable, Mitchell."

"I’ve been doing that," laughed Mitchell. "Cato made me feel quite at home."

"Good." Thorne moved over to the dining-table as Cato, returning, placed a tray with siphon and bottle of Scotch whisky before him. "Say when—"

[232]"Enough." Mitchell took the tall glass extended to him and filled it with vichy. "What are you Virginians going to do when your state goes ‘bone dry’?"

"Endure it with other evils," dryly. "I wish the legislators would remember, before passing such stringent laws, that we are not all ‘self-starters,’ and dry dinners can be very dull."

"You speak feelingly. Was that your experience at dinner tonight?" asked Mitchell, observing that Thorne wore a dress suit.

"Yes." Thorne pushed two chairs near the fireplace and produced a cigar box and ash trays. "What are the latest developments across the way?"

"Nothing later than the scene with Noyes this afternoon," replied Mitchell. "Where’s that Englishman been hiding since the discovery of Brainard’s murder?"

Thorne did not speak until after lighting his cigar. "Are you quite sure that Noyes was hiding?"

"He must have been, for we sent out a general call to police headquarters throughout the country to look for him, and no trace of him has been reported. Also, doctor, no one[233] has reported seeing him leave the Porter house Tuesday morning. How did he get to Washington? Where did he take the train for New York?"

Thorne stared thoughtfully at his highball and twirled the glass about several times before speaking.

"I don’t know that this has any bearing on the case," he said. "But one of my patients told me today that an old country place in Maryland just across the river has been bought by an Englishman named Galbraith—my patient has seen Dr. Noyes and Galbraith motoring together and—Galbraith owns a motor power boat."

"Oh!" Mitchell produced his memorandum book and made an entry in it. "I believe you’ve hit the trail, doctor," he exclaimed a moment later. "I didn’t see Dr. Noyes again as, after reviving Miss Porter from her feinting spell, he went up to Craig Porter’s room, and Murray told me an hour ago that the doctor was still in the sick room and could not be called away."

"I wish"—Thorne paused to knock the ash from his cigar—"I wish Dr. Noyes had delayed his return just one hour."

[234]"Why?"

"Because"—Thorne picked his words with care—"because I was called in by Mrs. Porter to attend her son, and I would have liked to have the case."

Mitchell looked at him amusedly. "What, do you desire to pour coals of fire on Mrs. Porter’s head by curing her son, or"—his eyes twinkling as he scanned Thorne, whose air of distinction was enhanced by his well-cut evening clothes—"do you wish to have your hereditary enemy at your mercy?"

"Perhaps." Thorne’s firm mouth relaxed into a warm, bright smile, which cloaked his abrupt change of subject. "Do you think that Noyes is implicated in Brainard’s murder?"

"I do and I don’t." Mitchell settled back in his chair and crossed his legs. "First and foremost is his disappearance on Tuesday morning before the murder was discovered—"

"Before the murder was generally known," put in Thorne, and Mitchell considered the suggestion gravely.

"Perhaps so," he admitted, "but I don’t quite catch your drift," looking inquisitively at Thorne who, however, remained silent, and[235] Mitchell continued: "Noyes’ disappearance after the murder, his refusal to tell me where he spent the past few days, and why he has now returned to the Porter house all point to a desire for secrecy; and secrecy would indicate that he has some knowledge of the crime—if he is not the criminal himself."

"The latter supposition I think you can dismiss," remarked Thorne. "It was physically impossible for a one-armed man to cut Brainard’s throat."

Mitchell did not answer at once, then pulled his chair closer to Thorne. "Were you aware until this afternoon in the Porter library that Noyes had lost his right arm?"

"No. I had never seen Noyes before."

"But others who testified at the inquest had seen Noyes—why did they not mention that he had only one arm? Surely a rare enough condition to have made sufficient impression on his friends and the servants for them to have commented upon it at the inquest," argued Mitchell. "In subsequent conversations, Mrs. Porter, the nurses, Miss Porter, never alluded to his having lost an arm. Why was that?"

"I’m sure I don’t know." Thorne knitted[236] his brows in thought. "It’s highly probable that they never imagined Noyes could be suspected of murdering Brainard, or they would have mentioned it to prove that he could not have killed him."

"I don’t agree with your reasoning," snapped Mitchell. "The loss of his arm was bound to have come up when the coroner was questioning the witnesses about the razor; any one of the servants even might casually have mentioned his infirmity. No, doctor, they didn’t allude to it because they were accustomed to his using a false arm and hand."

"Upon my word!" Thorne sat back and contemplated the detective in surprise. "That’s an ingenious theory."

"I’m sure I’m right," went on Mitchell, showing more than his usual animation as he warmed to the subject. "I was about to question Murray when Miss Dorothy Deane appeared and ordered me off the place—a message from Mrs. Porter, she said, and as Murray looked as if he was ready to back up his employer’s orders, I retreated—until tomorrow. Now, doctor, you are aware of the ingenious steel and wooden limbs invented to take the place of arms and legs; they are[237] marvels of mechanical skill, and one-armed surgeons using a false arm and hand have been known to perform the most delicate operations." Thorne nodded agreement. "Well, why couldn’t Noyes have, with the aid of a false hand, cut Brainard’s throat?"

"It is within possibility," admitted Thorne. "But the motive for the crime?"

The detective chuckled grimly. "In moments of stress or excitement men give themselves away. Did you observe Noyes’ expression when Miss Porter fainted? You did; then there’s the answer to your question."

"You mean—" Thorne tossed away his cigar stub. "You mean Noyes is in love with Millicent Porter?"

"I do," emphatically. "There’s your motive, doctor—jealousy. Now, consider all the facts," catching sight of Thorne’s dubious expression. "Miss Porter’s engagement to Brainard was to be announced on Tuesday, but it leaked out at the dinner Monday night. Noyes may have had no idea that she was engaged to another man, and the news awakened a desire to be revenged on Brainard. It is possible that Miss Porter encouraged Noyes’ attentions, and he lived in a fool’s paradise.[238] It’s said, ‘Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.’ Well, my profession has taught me that men evince the same strong dislike to such treatment—and such motives frequently lead to murder."

"You are building up a specious case against Noyes," remarked Thorne. "But whether your conclusions rest on a firm foundation remains to be seen. Frankly, I was prepossessed in Noyes’ favor this afternoon; he is a man evidently of deep feeling, and, judging by appearances, living under great strain." Thorne spoke more slowly. "Noyes is not the type of man to commit cold-blooded murder."

"Tut, doctor, murder is not confined to a type!" retorted Mitchell. "If it were we would have an easy time detecting criminals. And they don’t go around labeled ‘criminals’ in real life any more than they do in fiction. It’s generally the least suspected person who is guilty in everyday life, and the clues are to be found in the victim’s past."

"Exactly!" exclaimed Thorne. "Why not inquire into Brainard’s past?"

"Jones has that in charge and I’m expecting a report daily," answered Mitchell. "I’ve learned everything there is to know concerning[239] Brainard in Washington. He stood well in his profession, had some private means, and was counted a good fellow at the club, and was a great ‘dinner man.’"

"The latter means nothing," commented Thorne cynically. "A suit of respectable evening clothes often covers a family skeleton in Washington society."

"In this instance I haven’t heard the bones rattle," laughed Mitchell. "But it may be—" he paused abruptly. "That Deane girl bothers me."

Thorne’s hand, outstretched to grasp his glass tumbler, remained poised in air. "She need not trouble you," he said, taking up the glass. "I’ve thought over our former conversation about her, Mitchell, very carefully, and have come to the conclusion that I was wrong." His gray eyes held his companion’s gaze as his clear, resonant voice continued: "I believe that Miss Deane was not in Craig Porter’s bedroom when Brainard was murdered in the room next to his."

"Where was she then?"

"Perhaps in her own bedroom or downstairs."

"Then why doesn’t she say so?"

[240]"Because by admitting that she left her patient she would lay herself open to dismissal for neglecting her professional duty."

Mitchell smiled skeptically. "Better be dismissed as an incompetent nurse than be charged with murder. But you jump to conclusions, doctor. I did not allude to Miss Vera Deane a moment ago, but to her sister, Dorothy."

"Dorothy!"

"Yes," continued Mitchell. "I went to the Tribune office this afternoon, and she had the effrontery to tell me that the article Miss Porter threw into the unused well on the side hill was nothing but a ‘cut’ of her photograph."

"Have you investigated the matter?"

"Sure. That old farmer, Montagu, told me of seeing Miss Porter drop something in the well yesterday; but I haven’t had time to examine the well today."

Thorne rose and, walking over to the table in the window, pulled open its drawer. "Here’s the cut," he announced, taking out a square piece of metal caked with mud. "Montagu also told me, and I searched the well this afternoon with his aid."

[241]Mitchell took the cut and gingerly turned it over. "So Dorothy Deane told the truth," he muttered, "and got ‘fired’ for it." And as Thorne glanced up in surprise he briefly recounted the scene in the newspaper office. At its conclusion he rose. "I’m glad to have had this talk with you, doctor."

"Don’t go," protested Thorne. "I can easily put you up for the night."

"Thanks, but I must relieve Pope who is keeping his eye on the Porter house. Let me know if you see anyone up in the attic at the Porters’ tonight sending wireless messages."

"All right, I will." Thorne accompanied the detective into the living-room and assisted him into his overcoat. "Drop in tomorrow, Mitchell; I’m always glad to see you," he said cordially.

"I’ll come, doctor; good night," and Mitchell strode through the doorway and up the brick walk.

Thorne watched him out of sight, then closed the hall door and returned to the dining-room. He stopped to pull down the window shades, first taking an exhaustive look at the Porter mansion, whose dark windows showed[242] indistinctly in the pale moonlight. Thorne next turned his attention to the neglected cut of Millicent Porter. Barely glancing at it, he flung it back in the drawer and walked over to the table and poured out another highball.

"To Vera!" he said aloud, holding up the glass, then lowered it without tasting its contents, while his eyes contracted with sudden pain. "Bah!" he ejaculated, and, replacing the glass on the tray, he stepped to the door and looked into the dark pantry.

"Cato," he called, removing his coat, "Cato!"

[243]
CHAPTER XV
EDGED TOOLS
THE moonlight penetrated but feebly through the one small opening which did duty for a window of the lean-to, and its interior was a mass of shadows. Suddenly that point of light was obliterated as a dark cloth was pulled across the opening. There was a prolonged wait before the same fingers switched on an electric lamp supplied with current from a powerful dry battery, but the light was so arranged that it fell directly upon a table on which stood a photographer’s outfit. A man, his face in shadow from a huge green eye-shade which he wore low on his brow, removed his hand from the electric switch. Taking up a piece of bond paper he felt its texture, and holding it up to the light he examined with minute attention the red and blue silk fiber running through the paper.

Laying down the paper he took out his wallet and drew out some money, and holding[244] the spurious bill and the genuine bank note against the light he compared them closely, then a smile of triumph crossed his tightly compressed lips. It was next to impossible to distinguish between the two notes. Greatly elated, he straightened his weary back and looked about his workshop.

The cabin, for such it was, though to the casual observer it looked like only a lean-to of logs against the hillside, had but the one room which was fairly large, but owing to the numerous benches and tables and other articles it appeared smaller than it really was. At one side stood a printing-press, a metal rolling-machine, planchette cutting-machine, pump, two oil stoves, a plating outfit, and a double Turner torch, while a series of shelves held paints, oils, acids, brushes, and chemicals. Dumped in one corner were a lathe, a melting-pot, brazier, crucible and ladles, and on a nearby bench were scales, copper and zinc plates, dies, and molds.

The counterfeiter replaced the genuine money in his wallet and returned the latter to his pocket, then he moved over to a small safe and placed a handful of spurious bank notes inside it. He stood for a moment[245] staring at the closed door of the safe, but he was in too excited a frame of mind to remain long idle, and walking over to a small cabinet he pulled out first one drawer and then another, arranging engraver’s tools and other delicate instruments with deft fingers. After that task was completed he turned his attention to the stone chimney and fireplace at the back of the cabin and banked the smoldering embers with ashes. Finally convinced that there was no danger of fire he drew out from the background large screens and arranged them in front of the homogeneous contents of the room. The screens were cleverly painted to resemble the bare walls of a log cabin, and once in position they caused the optical illusion, should any passer-by look through the window, of a deserted and empty cabin.

The counterfeiter, first concealing his green eye-shade behind one of the screens, switched off the electric light, and moving over to the window drew back the black cloth and concealed its presence by tucking it in a crevice in the log wall. A second later he was outside the cabin, and the faint click of the spring lock as he closed the door assured him that the latch had caught. He was inspecting[246] the lock which chemicals had made old and dilapidated in appearance when a shadow obscured the moonlight shining on the door. The counterfeiter’s hand closed over the butt of a revolver inside his overcoat pocket, but before he caught sight of the newcomer a subdued but familiar voice reassured him, and his chilled blood coursed through his veins.

"I’se late, but I’se hyar, sah."

"So I see, Cato, but come out of the moonlight." And he pulled the old servant into the shelter of the woods. "What news?"

"Ain’t none," tersely; the climb up the hillside had been both steep and hard, and the old negro was short of breath. The stillness remained unbroken for several minutes except for the hoot of a screech owl, at which the negro jumped nervously, then seeing that his companion had started down the hillside he made what speed he could after him. They were skirting the hedge which marked the southern boundary of Thornedale when a hand was laid on Cato’s shoulder.

"Go home, Cato," directed the counterfeiter. "Don’t wait for me tonight, I’ll be along presently."

"Yessir," promised Cato, peering cautiously[247] at him. "Yo’ am sure—" An impatient nod checked Cato, and he thankfully withdrew, making his way to Thornedale with infinite caution. The counterfeiter watched him until he was lost from sight in the grove of trees about the house, then turned his attention to the Porter mansion. But his wary progress in that direction was checked by the sound of rapidly approaching footsteps, and he had but time to sink down behind the friendly hedge when a figure loomed ahead silhouetted against the skyline in the moonlight.

"Eleven, twelve," chimed the hall clock, and the sound carried through the open door of Craig Porter’s bedroom to Dr. Alan Noyes sitting by the paralytic’s bedside. Noyes looked up and rose as Vera Deane came over to the bed.

"Mr. Porter responds quickly to medicine," he said, keeping his voice low-pitched. "And he has at last fallen asleep. I think we may safely believe that his relapse of this afternoon was but temporary."

"Thank God for that—his poor mother!" Vera spoke with deep feeling. "I am afraid she will be our next patient, doctor."

[248]Noyes looked grave. "Mrs. Porter has had a trying year; anxiety for her son, Monday’s tragedy—" His gesture was eloquent. "Try and humor her as much as you can, Miss Deane; her frayed nerves won’t stand opposition." He took an undecided step across the room. "Mr. Porter is so much improved that I will go and lie down. Call me at once should Mr. Porter awaken and any alarming symptoms appear."

"Very well, doctor." Vera’s eyes strayed from his haggard face to his empty coat sleeve, and with difficulty she controlled all evidence of curiosity. Before he reached the door she again spoke to him: "Are you occupying your same room?" she asked.

Noyes looked his impatience. "Yes, I am," he said, and his manner was far from gracious. "Good night, Miss Deane."

"Good night, sir," and Vera closed the hall door.

Everything had been arranged in the sick room for the night, and Vera selected a chair farthest from the night light and near her patient, and prepared for a long vigil. But while she continued to gaze steadily at Craig Porter, every sense alive to catch his need of[249] careful nursing, she could not center her thoughts on her patient.

Slowly she reviewed the happenings of the day—her meeting with Beverly Thorne; his possession of the black-edged card. Was it mere chance, Fate or Fury which had entwined their paths? Could she place dependence upon Thorne? Her heart beat more swiftly and a vivid blush dyed her cheeks as recollection rose of the message his eyes conveyed as they stood together at Diamond Rock barely eight hours before. Pshaw! she was not impressionable, like Dorothy and Millicent—and experience had taught her something of man’s duplicity.

Vera blinked violently, and leaned over to smooth out an infinitesimal wrinkle from the white sheet. Craig Porter had not awakened, and she forced thoughts of Beverly Thorne out of her mind and instead endeavored to recall her scene with Mrs. Porter in the library. As she remembered the expression in the older woman’s eyes when she had asked, "Who in this household would have a motive for killing Bruce Brainard?" Vera turned cold. Why had she not obliged Mrs. Porter to give a direct answer to her own question—at least[250] she would have had her suspicions either confirmed or denied; any alternative would have been preferable to the intolerable suspense she was enduring.

She passed a hand before her eyes, and her thoughts took a new trend. What had brought Alan Noyes back to the Porters’ when he— The opening of the hall door abruptly terminated her troubled reflections, and she rose as Mrs. Porter entered the room.

Without speaking Mrs. Porter tiptoed over to the bed and gazed long and earnestly at her son.

"Is he really asleep?" she whispered.

"Yes, Mrs. Porter. Won’t you take my chair?" placing it for her.

Mrs. Porter seated herself, drawing Vera down to sit on the arm in order that she might speak confidentially and not raise her voice.

"I can do nothing with Millicent," she said wearily. "Arguments, commands, are of no avail; she will not go to bed, will not even slip on her wrapper and lie down on the lounge. She declares that she cannot sleep, that she must have ‘air, air.’" Mrs. Porter pushed her hair off her forehead. "She even threatens to go for a walk."

[251]"At this hour?"

"Yes. I thought of sending for your sister to quiet her, but concluded to come for you. Your nursing experience can decide if she needs a sedative."

"Shall I call Dr. Noyes to attend her?"

"No." Mrs. Porter’s mouth closed obstinately. "Except that her manner is a trifle wild and her cheeks unduly flushed, Millicent seems rational. You have great influence with her, Vera; go and quiet her."

"But I cannot leave your son."

"Yes, you can; I will stay here until you return." Mrs. Porter spoke authoritatively and Vera hesitated, Noyes’ caution of the moment before recurring to her; he had told her that Mrs. Porter should be humored, and there was nothing for her to do but obey his instructions. She looked again at Craig Porter, whose closed eyes and regular breathing indicated that his sleep was uninterrupted. If Millicent did require medical attendance she could summon Dr. Noyes and Mrs. Hall, and return to her regular duties. A thought occurred to her, and she turned back to Mrs. Porter.

"Would you like me to call Mrs. Hall?"

[252]"Mercy, no!" Mrs. Porter frowned; she objected to suggestions, no matter how well meant they were. "Go at once, Vera, I do not like to leave Millicent alone for any length of time. She is sitting in the boudoir."

With a last look at her patient, Vera left the room and sought the boudoir; it was empty. She went at once to Millicent’s bedroom and, her gentle tap getting no response, she opened the door and went in. Millicent was not there, and, somewhat perplexed, Vera looked into the communicating dressing-room and from there passed into her sister’s bedroom. Dorothy was lying asleep on the bed, her gas-light turned low, but as Vera bent over her she saw traces of recent tears on her pale cheeks and forbore to wake her.

Returning to the hall she stood debating as to whether to report to Mrs. Porter or continue her search for Millicent on the first floor. She decided to go back to Mrs. Porter, but as she paused in front of the door of Craig Porter’s bedroom a faint noise caused her to look hastily down the hall just as Millicent emerged from the attic stairs and disappeared down the back staircase. The acetylene lights at either end of the long hall were[253] burning dimly, as Mrs. Porter deemed it unsafe to keep the house in darkness, and Vera saw that Millicent was enveloped in some sort of a cloak.

Considerably perturbed, Vera hesitated, but only for a moment; then she sped after Millicent. Mrs. Porter was on guard in the sick room, and she had sent her to look after her daughter. If Millicent, in a moment of delirium perhaps, attempted to walk abroad at that hour of the night she must be reasoned with and stopped.

Vera’s disturbed ideas took form as she dashed downstairs, the sound of her approach deadened by her rubber-soled shoes. She was halfway down the circular staircase when she saw Millicent fumbling with the lock, by aid of the moonlight streaming through the fanlight over the side door. The clang of the night chain when Millicent unhooked it drowned Vera’s low-voiced call, and, snatching up a small bundle which she had placed on a console, Millicent darted out into the night. Her foot turned just as she was about to descend the few steps leading to the graveled path, and only her outflung hand saved her from a nasty fall. Recovering herself[254] and never glancing behind her, she hastened up the path, being careful, however, to tread only on the turf.

Vera, unmindful of the chill wind and her coatless condition, paused only long enough to close the door, then hurried after Millicent. She had taken but a few steps beyond the house when her foot struck against something which whizzed ahead of her, and she caught the glint of moonlight on metal. Catching up with the small object, she stooped over and picked it up. It was a razor.

Vera’s heart beat with suffocating rapidity as she tore ahead. What fresh tragedy was impending? To her dismay she saw Millicent was gaining ground. What use to call—no one was near—and she needed every ounce of breath to overtake the flying figure. Millicent kept a fairly straight course, then, darting among a clump of laurel bushes, disappeared from view, but only for a moment, as Vera, circling the bushes, caught sight of her cutting across fields toward Thornedale, but instead of continuing her approach to the low, rambling hunting lodge, she doubled on her tracks and half slid down a steep embankment.

[255]Vera, hampered by her unfamiliarity with the ground, was some minutes later in reaching the top of the embankment, and she halted abruptly on seeing Millicent, no sign of her recent haste discernible, seated at the bottom of the embankment, apparently resting at her ease. Shifting clouds temporarily obscured the moon, and Vera waited expectantly before attempting the descent, dropping to her knees behind a cluster of shrubs as she decided to call and ask Millicent to wait for her. But her intentions received a check as a figure turned the corner of the winding highway, and a voice addressed Millicent.

"Who is here?" The next instant an electric pocket torch played across her face, then flickered out as Hugh Wyndham exclaimed in deep astonishment, "Millicent!"

His cousin threw out her hand as if to ward off the censure she felt coming.

"The house was stifling, Hugh," she explained hurriedly. "I simply had to come out," rising. "I’ll walk back with you. My head feels better already."

Wyndham gazed at her in undisguised concern. "I wish I had known—" he began, and broke off. "Come, Millicent." And slipping[256] his arm inside hers, he led her with gentle determination in the direction of her house. Vera, greatly relieved at having Wyndham take charge of his cousin, was about to rise from her cramped position and follow them, when the razor, which she still clutched, slipped from her grasp and slid down the embankment. Instinctively she reached for it, lost her balance and went plunging down to the roadway. In an instant she was on her feet, the razor once again in hand, and she started forward but, confused by her tumble, she did not realize that she was headed in the wrong direction until she had taken several steps.

"Hush!" he whispered. "No noise. Look——"
"Hush!" he whispered. "No noise. Look——"

As she paused she became aware that someone was approaching swiftly down the road, and suddenly awakening to the fact that Millicent and Wyndham were out of sight in the opposite direction, and that it must be long after midnight, she made a few hesitating steps toward a hedge and stopped irresolutely; there was no reason why she should run away. She held up the razor and the sight of the burnished steel in the light from the moon, which had come from behind the obscuring clouds, reassured her. She was not[257] without protection, but a sudden doubt assailed her; how was she to account for the possession of the razor? Millicent might have dropped it in her flight from the house—but why had Millicent carried a razor—it was a toilet article not usually possessed by women. Could it be that Millicent was striving to get rid of the razor surreptitiously? The police were still searching for the set of razors from which had been taken the razor used to kill Bruce Brainard—

Vera’s arm was raised to fling the razor far from her when a hand was clapped over her mouth and she was pulled down in the shadow of the hedge bordering the road. Her startled eyes looked straight at Beverly Thorne.

"Hush!" he whispered. "No noise. Look!"

And following his pointing finger Vera saw a man run across the opposite field, vault the fence and hurry down the road. He was entirely out of sight before Thorne removed his hand from Vera’s shoulder, and, rising, he helped her up.

"Come," he said, and in silence accompanied her to the Porter mansion.

Vera, her ideas too chaotic for utterance, detained him at the side door. "Who was[258] the man we saw run up the road?" she asked. "His figure looked familiar, but I did not get a clear view of his face."

"It was Detective Mitchell," responded Thorne softly, lifting his cap. "Good night."

Not until she was safely inside the Porter mansion did Vera remember the razor—she gazed blankly at her empty hands. Had she dropped the razor in her excitement or—had Beverly Thorne taken it from her?

[259]
CHAPTER XVI
HARE AND HOUNDS
WYNDHAM, taking no precautions to walk lightly, tramped down the hall oblivious of the bright sunshine which streamed through the windows, whistling dismally below his breath. As he came abreast of his cousin’s bedroom the door, which stood partly ajar, was opened fully and Mrs. Hall stepped into the corridor, a finger to her lip. Wyndham halted abruptly.

"Is anything the matter?" he questioned, alarmed by her manner.

"Miss Porter has been given a sedative," she said, closing the bedroom door softly. "The slightest noise—your whistling—"

"Oh, I beg pardon," in deep contrition. "I was not aware—is she seriously ill?"

"A trifle feverish." Mrs. Hall glanced at him doubtfully, looked away, then bowed and laid her hand on the knob of the bedroom door,[260] but Wyndham, quick to catch her expression, checked her by an imperative gesture.

"You wish to ask me something?"

All hesitancy vanished as Mrs. Hall met his steadfast regard and came unconsciously under the influence of his friendly smile. "Your cousin," she began, "your cousin in her delirium begged me to find out if she had hidden them safely."

Wyndham stared at her. "Hidden what?"

"She never said, but repeated over and over that she wished me to go and see if she had hidden them safely." Mrs. Hall moved nearer, and lowered her voice. "I trust Miss Porter will be normal when she wakens. I had to use physical strength to prevent her from going out to see ‘if she had hidden them safely.’"

Wyndham failed to catch her furtive glance as he stood considering her words. He roused himself with an effort. "I have no idea to what my cousin alludes," he said, and his glance sharpened. "How is your other patient this morning?"

"Mr. Porter is about the same." Mrs. Hall grew grave. "Dr. Noyes is with him until Miss Deane awakens from her nap. She has volunteered to do double duty."

[261]"I see; let me know if I can be of assistance in taking care of Craig," said Wyndham, and, bowing, he went downstairs.

Mrs. Hall did not at once re-enter Millicent’s bedroom, but when she did her expression was not pleasant.

Wyndham was not noted for patience at any time, and when he strode into the dining-room his manner showed his frame of mind. He had a vanishing view of the butler, Selby, carrying a tray upstairs, but Murray’s non-appearance after he had repeatedly rung the bell added to his irritation. Jerking back his chair he pushed open the swing door.

"Murray!" he roared, and his voice carried through the pantry and into the kitchen beyond.

"Coming, sir, coming," and the footman followed his words with such precipitancy that he almost collided with Wyndham. "Beg pardon, sir, for keeping you waiting, but cook felt fainty-like, and I was just helpin’ the maids give her some pneumonia."

"Too bad!" Wyndham, concealing a smile, resumed his seat. "I hope she feels better."

"Yes, sir, thank you. Your breakfast is being kept warm for you; shall I bring it in?"

[262]A nod sufficed in answer as Wyndham spied the morning newspaper, and paying no further attention to the footman he turned sheet after sheet with feverish haste. With little to feed upon, excitement about the Brainard murder had abated, and the column devoted to it had been relegated to the third page. The reporter assigned to the case had evidently had difficulty in finding a new angle in handling the mystery, and had devoted his energies to concocting an ingenious resume. But one paragraph near the bottom of the column riveted Wyndham’s attention.

Detective Mitchell, when interviewed last night, confirmed the report that events in the career of Bruce Brainard before he came to Washington were being investigated, and a thorough search made into the dead man’s private affairs. Brainard was a self-made man, and while a student at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Troy, N. Y., he spent his summer vacations working as private secretary to the Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington. Brainard afterward made a name for himself in his profession, and was one of the recognized high-salaried consulting engineers of this country.

All efforts to establish the ownership of the razor used to kill Brainard have been unproductive of result. The detectives claim the razor is one of a set, but where and by whom the other razors of the set have been hidden in the Porter homestead is a mystery.

[263]"Deviled kidney, sir," prompted Murray, presenting a piping hot dish, and Wyndham, with a thoughtful air, laid down the newspaper and commenced his breakfast.

"Where is Mrs. Porter?" he inquired presently.

"Breakfasting upstairs, sir." Murray, who had brought in a fresh supply of coffee, hastened to fill Wyndham’s empty cup. "Selby is serving her and Miss Dorothy in the boudoir. Have another muffin, sir?"

As Wyndham attacked his third muffin with unabated appetite, Dorothy Deane strolled into the dining-room, and he rose to place a chair for her, his face brightening at her entrance.

"It was very unkind of you not to wait and have breakfast with me," he said reproachfully, as she declined Murray’s offer of a cup of hot coffee.

"Mrs. Porter asked me to stay with her. I only ran down thinking that Vera might be getting her breakfast."

Wyndham looked as hurt as he felt. "I am sorry—" he said stiffly.

Impulsively Dorothy extended her hand and he clasped it eagerly, and Murray, his solemn[264] countenance relieved by a sympathetic smile, discreetly vanished.

"Don’t," she pleaded brokenly, "don’t find fault with me. I—I can’t stand it from you."

Wyndham saw that her eyes were brimming with tears. The next instant she was in his arms, and as he caught the passionate light in her eyes his heart swelled with thanksgiving, the irresistible force of love had conquered the constraint growing between them. But his moment of rejoicing was short lived as, regaining some semblance of composure, she quietly unclasped his hands and rose.

"We are both mad, Hugh," she said, with a pitiful attempt at a smile. "Under existing circumstances we cannot be married."

"Why not?" hotly, with honest worship in his eyes. "I see no barrier, except of your imagining."

She recoiled. "Hush, Hugh! I cannot discuss it—it’s too near, too dreadful—" She covered her eyes and so missed the look he shot at her.

Without a word he turned and paced agitatedly up and down the room, coming at last to a full stop beside her. "Very well, if you wish it I will not allude to past events."[265] His voice was so changed that she looked at him in quick alarm. "But you must understand, Dorothy, that your love is to me more than all the world; that I have never ceased to love you."

She moved impulsively toward him, then checked herself, her eyes downcast; she dared not look at him or her resolution would have given way.

"Finish your breakfast," she said in a voice which quivered in spite of her endeavor to keep it calm; she was very near to tears. "Are you going to Washington this morning?"

"No." He accepted her effort to make the conversation impersonal with marked displeasure, then, thinking better of his ungracious monosyllable, he added hastily, "Is there anything I can do for you in town?"

"There is nothing, thanks," she said drearily, and looked past him through one of the windows in time to see Dr. Alan Noyes walking swiftly along the path which circled the house. Dorothy watched Noyes out of sight, then turned back to Wyndham, her eyes dark with wonder.

"Hugh," she almost whispered her words,[266] and he bent eagerly nearer, "why has Alan Noyes discontinued wearing his false arm?"

He did not reply at once, and she remarked his silence, but before she could repeat her question he addressed her.

"I cannot imagine," he admitted. "It is a move likely to turn suspicion toward him, and it will not lessen the conviction that he is perhaps responsible for Brainard’s murder."

"Why?"

"Because without the arm he could not have committed the crime; therefore, if he is guilty the first thing he would do would be to get rid of the arm—if innocent he would have continued to use it."

"But his motive?" Dorothy frowned in perplexity. "The only person he might protect by such a subterfuge never murdered Bruce Brainard."

Wyndham studied her intently as he drew a degree closer. "Are you so very positive you know who really is guilty?" he questioned, with peculiar intonation; the look she flashed at him was her only answer, for Mrs. Porter’s entrance put an effectual end to the tete-à-tete.

"Good morning, Hugh," she said, returning her nephew’s kiss with warmth. Pad and[267] pencil in hand, she was on her way to make her weekly inventory of household supplies, a habit clung to as year succeeded year, and never delegated to the most trusted servant. She seldom permitted circumstances to alter the daily routine. "Dorothy, will you be here all day?"

"Yes, Mrs. Porter; this is my day off from the Tribune."

With a relieved air Mrs. Porter walked toward the pantry. "Will you stay upstairs with Millicent, Dorothy, until I return?" she asked. "Mrs. Hall is still with her, but—" Mrs. Porter let the swing door close and beckoned her nephew and Dorothy to come nearer. "I am dissatisfied with Mrs. Hall," she went on in an undertone. "In the last week her manner to me is totally altered—"

"Perhaps she resents your fondness for Vera," suggested Wyndham, as Dorothy made no remark. "Professional jealousy may account for any peculiarity of manner."

"That is possible," acknowledged Mrs. Porter. "She is an excellent nurse, and until lately has been eminently satisfactory. I shall be greatly obliged, Dorothy, if you will go at once to Millicent and stay with her[268] until I return." And, not waiting for an answer, she entered the pantry. Wyndham accompanied Dorothy into the hall and strove by an appealing gesture to detain her for a few more words.

"I really can’t stop," she protested, as he imprisoned her hand. "Mrs. Porter is frightened about Millicent—and yet, Mrs. Hall told me it was only a feverish cold, and that while she was running a temperature, she was not seriously ill. What induced Millicent to go for a walk in the grounds after midnight?" Getting no response, she added nervously, "What was her object?"

"Her object?" Wyndham’s thoughts turned reluctantly from Dorothy to what she was saying. "Oh, Millicent told me the house was stuffy and that she had a headache and needed air."

"Is that all?" Dorothy’s relief was manifest. "She came into my room on her return and awoke me. When I questioned her as to where she had been her manner was so mysterious that I concluded she was hiding something."

"Hiding something?" repeated Wyndham mechanically, as Mrs. Hall’s words recurred to him; Millicent in delirium stated that she[269] had "hidden something"—could that something be the extra razors which the enterprising reporter in the morning newspaper hinted were secreted somewhere about the Porter homestead? The thought was startling.

In his preoccupation Wyndham hardly noticed that Dorothy had freed her hand and run up the staircase. He stared in front of him in deep thought for several minutes, then, his decision taken, he picked up his cane and hat and went outdoors.

Wyndham was totally unconscious of the beauty of the morning as he strode along, retracing the path by which he and Millicent had returned after their meeting at the foot of the embankment early that morning. Upon reaching the highway he kept to the public road, and as he approached the embankment he saw a man, at some distance beyond the point for which he was aiming, emerge from a break in the hedge separating Thornedale from the public road, and walk rapidly toward the embankment. Drawing closer to the newcomer Wyndham recognized Beverly Thorne and instinctively quickened his pace, and the two men arrived simultaneously at the embankment.

[270]With a curt bob of his head and a mumbled "Good morning," Wyndham made as if to continue his walk down the road, but turning his head quickly he saw Thorne had stopped and was carelessly swinging his riding crop up and down and thereby creating havoc in the creeping myrtle which covered the space between the road and the embankment.

Wyndham wheeled about and was by Thorne’s side in an instant. Suppose the surgeon inadvertently chanced upon Millicent’s hiding-place—for that his theory was right Wyndham had come to believe in his walk to the embankment. How Millicent had ever acquired possession of the razors could be investigated later; at the moment it was his business to prevent others, particularly Thorne, who must be familiar with that section of his land, from stumbling upon any evidence which might incriminate—

"Have a cigarette, Thorne," he said, hastily producing his silver case. "Great day, isn’t it?"

Thorne eyed him in surprise, then, concealing a faint hesitancy, accepted a cigarette and also a proffered match. "Much obliged," he[271] said politely. "How is your cousin, Mr. Porter, this morning?"

"Better, much better." Wyndham was watching his companion narrowly; he had only exchanged a few words with him on the few occasions they had met. "My aunt appreciated your coming so promptly in response to her message, and we were both sorry to put you to the trouble—"

"It was no trouble," replied Thorne brusquely; sensitive as he was to his neighbors’ dislike of him, he was quick to resent what he construed to be a touch of patronage in Wyndham’s manner.

An awkward pause followed as each man waited for the other to walk on. Wyndham was a poor hand at manufacturing small talk; he did not care to discuss with anyone whom Mrs. Porter disliked intensely the happenings of the week, yet Bruce Brainard’s murder and its attendant mystery were uppermost in his mind, and he could think of nothing else to speak about. Thorne, watching him closely, embarrassed him still further by remaining obstinately silent. They could not stand by the roadside contemplating each other for the remainder of the morning, but Wyndham[272] was determined not to leave until Thorne did.

"Suppose we sit down," suggested Thorne finally. "We might as well be comfortable while enjoying good cigarettes." And he threw himself on the ground and lolled back against the embankment.

Wyndham reluctantly followed suit. He was in a fever of impatience to test out his theory; had Millicent really secreted the razors in the old place in which as a child she had hidden her toys? He could not start his investigations until it pleased Thorne to depart.

Three minutes, five minutes passed, and Wyndham regarded the wireless apparatus on the Porter house in glum silence, determined not to speak first, but a sudden rustling of the myrtle leaves by his side attracted his attention and he discovered Thorne running his riding crop in and out among the myrtle. Wyndham’s slight grip on self-control vanished utterly, and, disdaining subterfuge, he slipped his walking stick under the leaves and instantly the two pieces of wood knocked together and clung, almost like rapiers feeling the strength of opponents before making a[273] deadly thrust. Suddenly the frail cane snapped and Wyndham withdrew the bit he still held.

"Sorry," said Thorne coolly. "Let me look for the other end of your stick."

"Don’t bother." Wyndham’s utterance was husky with anger. "The loss of the stick is no matter, but—" He stopped short as Detective Mitchell came up to them; both he and Thorne had been too intent upon watching each other to notice his approach.

Mitchell’s sense of humor was highly entertained by the tableau before him; for Thorne and Wyndham both looked heated and displeased in spite of their efforts to maintain an attitude of calm indifference. The detective could understand their quarreling, but why they sat by the roadside, resting lazily back against an embankment at some distance from each other, and each presenting the appearance of having used physical exertion, was beyond him.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded, looking from one to the other.

"Smoking," responded Wyndham; he did not relish the detective’s presence. "Have one?" extending his depleted case, and Mitchell accepted a cigarette. He took his time lighting[274] it, while covertly watching the two men, and his interest deepened as he saw Thorne’s hands moving apparently aimlessly through the myrtle leaves. A look at Wyndham showed him doing the same thing.

"What are you searching for, Mr. Wyndham?" he asked.

"I dropped my last match," was the reply, and Wyndham leaned to one side and felt about the ground.

"Here’s my box—catch!" Thorne, taking it from his pocket, tossed it to Wyndham. The match box fell squarely before Wyndham, and he picked it up with a word of thanks and relit his cigarette, then returned the box, and gave his full attention to Mitchell.

"What news this morning, Mitchell?" he inquired.

Mitchell took his own time in answering as he puffed smoke rings with a contented air.

"Commonwealth Attorney Wood has issued a warrant for Dr. Alan Noyes, and the sheriff has just gone to serve it."

"What!" Wyndham was on his feet instantly, his face white and startled. "It is a monstrous miscarriage of justice. Noyes is[275] no more guilty of Brainard’s death than you are, Mitchell."

"He will have ample opportunity to prove his innocence," replied Mitchell. "The preliminary hearing will be held before Judge Ball this morning."

"On what do you base such an accusation?" demanded Wyndham, for the moment forgetting to keep up his espionage of Thorne.

"I cannot disclose details," Mitchell’s chin looked aggressive. "Dr. Noyes may give bond in answer to the warrant, and waive examination until the next term of court."

"Give bond!" Wyndham started. "By Jove! I had better return home; Noyes will need me to go on his bond. See you later, Mitchell," and he stepped back into the road, then hesitated, his glance traveling to Thorne who sat gazing straight ahead of him. He was leaving Thorne in possession of the embankment.

Mitchell was about to call to Wyndham to wait for him when he suddenly recollected a message intrusted to his care.

"Your old servant, Cato, is looking for you, Dr. Thorne; and he asked me to tell you if[276] we met that Philadelphia wants you on the long-distance telephone."

Thorne was on his feet instantly. "Why didn’t you tell me that at once?" he began heatedly, then forgetting all else he hurried back to Thornedale. A second later Mitchell was alone, for, not pausing to exchange further remarks, Wyndham was beating a quick retreat to the Porter mansion. Mitchell smiled grimly.

"There’s not much love lost between Thorne and Wyndham," he muttered. "Therefore it’s surprising that they sat here in positions which would seem to indicate amicable conversation. And what were they striving to find in this neighborhood without the other’s knowledge?" Mitchell scratched his head in his perplexity. "And why did they leave me here?" He considered the question, then brightened. "It’s because I’m a stranger in this locality and they imagine I won’t know what to look for."

Mitchell made certain that Thorne had really returned to his home, then facing about he saw Wyndham moving swiftly across fields toward the Porter mansion. Losing no further time he knelt down and felt about[277] under the myrtle leaves near where Thorne and Wyndham had sat. But his search only produced dirty hands, and mumbling an uncomplimentary adjective about the two men, Mitchell moved a few steps down the road to where the roadside, skirting the embankment, widened and hollowed out. The creeping myrtle grew there in profusion, and Mitchell stooped down every other second, as he moved slowly along, to feel about the ground. At the last attempt his hand encountered cold iron, and he dropped down on his knees and, drawing aside the leaves and vines, saw an old cannon lying on its side in the hollow. It was small and of obsolete pattern. It had sunk partly into the ground and was not visible unless searched for, as the myrtle leaves made an effective screen. The detective studied the cannon for several minutes, then an idea occurred to him and he plunged his hand down its muzzle. His fingers closed on a bundle, and dragging it forth he unfolded a large silk handkerchief—a glittering array of razors confronted him.

Mitchell squatted down and examined his prize—it was a razor set of finest steel. He paused to count each razor.

[278]"Only five here," he said aloud. "Each razor bears the day of the week," looking at the tiny lettering on the back of the blade. "‘Friday’ is missing and"—turning them over—"‘Monday.’"

Laying down the set of razors, Mitchell drew from his pocket the razor found on the bed near Brainard’s dead body. It bore the inscription "Monday," and by its make and shape was the missing razor from the set. Mitchell looked at it as if hypnotized.

"Which one, Thorne or Wyndham, secreted these razors in the cannon?" he said. "They were both searching for something on this spot. Am I running with the hare as well as with the hounds?"

[279]
CHAPTER XVII
VERA RECEIVES A LETTER
AFTER leaving Detective Mitchell, Wyndham’s walk increased into a run as soon as he turned a curve in the road, but before reaching Dewdrop Inn he slackened his pace and it was with bowed head and slow step that he entered the house. Entirely ignoring Murray’s efforts to help him off with his overcoat, he brushed by the footman and entered the drawing-room. Mrs. Porter’s voice, raised in angry expostulation, drowned the sound of his approach, and he stood almost at the sheriff’s elbow before that official became aware of his presence. Sheriff Nichols, who had met him several times at the county court house, greeted him cordially.

"How are you, Mr. Wyndham?" he said, relieved by having someone besides an irate woman to argue with. "I’m trying to explain to Mrs. Porter that Dr. Noyes must come along with me, and she won’t listen to reason, nohow."

[280]"Reason? What reason is there in arresting an innocent man?" fumed Mrs. Porter. "Besides," a gleam of hope lighting her eyes, "Dr. Noyes is not a citizen of the United States, but an Englishman."

"Well, ma’am, that doesn’t give him the right to come over here and murder law-abiding citizens," retorted the sheriff bluntly. "No, he’s amenable to the law."

"I have not claimed otherwise," exclaimed Noyes; he had been standing somewhat in the background. Moving forward he laid a persuasive hand on Mrs. Porter’s arm. "Do not worry; I can prove my innocence when brought to trial."

"But to subject you to such treatment!" wailed Mrs. Porter, her composure showing signs of giving way under the stress of her feelings. "And Craig—what of him? Is my son to die because you insist on taking his physician to jail?" addressing the harassed sheriff.

"Law, ma’am, there’re plenty good American doctors." But the sheriff’s well-meant suggestion brought no consolation.

"They don’t understand Craig’s case. Secondly," frigidly, "I don’t place any faith in country doctors."

[281]"Call in Bev. Thorne, he only came back recently from city practice, and"—brightening—"he’s just across lots; ’most as handy as having him in the house."

Mrs. Porter’s face was a study. "I shall never permit Dr. Thorne to treat my son," she announced, in her excitement utterly forgetting that she had sent for Thorne the night before. "He is personally distasteful to me, and I have no confidence in his ability. I tell you, sheriff, by taking away Dr. Noyes you will be directly responsible for my son’s death."

The sheriff moved uneasily. "Duty’s duty, ma’am," he mumbled. "And," suddenly suspicious, "I heard as how Mr. Craig was a great deal better."

"He was"—Mrs. Porter wrung her hands, and the anguish in her eyes stirred a responsive chord in the sheriff’s breast; he had lost a son—"but Craig has had a relapse. Oh, my God! Why did Bruce Brainard ever come to this house!"

"Hush, aunt!" Wyndham shook her elbow slightly, and as she met his warning gaze she pulled herself together. "I will go bail for Dr. Noyes, sheriff; and he will stay with us until the next term of court."

[282]Sheriff Nichols looked dubious. "Well, come along with us to the court," he directed. "I reckon perhaps the judge will accept your bond; but it’s sure to be a pretty stiff one."

"I will sign the bond also," put in Mrs. Porter swiftly. "I beg of you, sheriff, to hurry through the legal formalities and permit Dr. Noyes to return."

"Sure I will, if the judge permits." The sheriff backed toward the door. "Come along, doctor, and get your grip, we might as well tote it with us; save a return trip in case the judge decides against the bond." He turned to bow to Mrs. Porter and walked into the hall.

Noyes led the way upstairs and paused outside his door. "Will you lend me your suitcase, Wyndham?" he asked. "I didn’t bring mine back with me yesterday."

"Certainly." And Wyndham hurried down the hall as Noyes and Sheriff Nichols entered the former’s bedroom. It was a large bright room, and as the surgeon moved backward and forward between his bureau and his bed carrying underclothes piece by piece the sheriff took in his surroundings in a comprehensive[283] glance, then walked over to the bureau and pushed Noyes gently to one side.

"Sit over there, son," he explained. "A man with one arm ain’t got no business trying to sort clothes." And without losing further time, he smoothed out the garments and arranged them in a neat pile. In replacing several suits of pajamas, the sheriff disarranged the large sheet of white paper which covered the bottom of the drawer, and disclosed a photograph lying concealed under it. Nichols did not require a second glance to recognize Millicent Porter; he had seen her too often riding about the countryside, or motoring, to be mistaken. A flip of his finger, and the photograph lay face down, but no writing was on the reverse of the cardboard. The sheriff smoothed the white paper back into place, then rose and faced Noyes, who sat gazing drearily out of the window. His utter indifference upon the announcement of his arrest and his subsequent silence puzzled the sheriff; he was more accustomed to noisy protestations of innocence, or quarreling; a willing prisoner was a new sensation.

Wyndham’s return with a suitcase put a stop to his cogitations, and, hardly waiting[284] for the bag to be opened, Sheriff Nichols gathered together such toilet articles and clothing as he thought Noyes might need, and slammed them inside.

"There, that’s done. All ready, doctor?" And he pocketed the key of the suitcase.

Noyes roused himself. "Quite ready," he said automatically, but once in the hall his manner altered; he darted a look toward Millicent’s closed door, then resolutely turned to the sheriff. "I must see Mr. Craig Porter, and leave directions with his nurse."

"All right, I’ll come, too." And the sheriff, utterly blind to the sudden furious glare Noyes shot at him, followed the latter into the paralytic’s bedroom, and shut the door in Wyndham’s face.

At their entrance Vera Deane looked up from a chart on which she was writing and rose, wonderment showing at sight of the sheriff’s stocky figure; then suppressing her surprise she waited for Noyes to speak.

"Miss Deane, this is the sheriff," he announced curtly, making no attempt to lower his tone; and Sheriff Nichols frowned reprovingly as he gazed at Craig Porter; a loud voice in the room with that motionless figure[285] seemed discordant. Nichols sighed involuntarily as he studied the changes in Craig; the latter’s almost fatal injury had made a total wreck of splendid manhood.

"And to think I uster take him hunting when he was a shaver," he said, below his breath. "And I’m hale and hearty and he’s bedridden; and he’s twenty years my junior. It don’t seem right, Craig; but you were always wishing to climb the tallest tree and ride the worst hoss, and see what ambition’s done for you." He met Vera’s eye and shook his head mournfully as he said aloud, "It don’t seem fair to talk to Craig when he can’t answer back."

Noyes laid down the chart and faced the sheriff. "Kindly say nothing to the patient, Sheriff Nichols. The slightest noise may do injury."

"Then why are you talking so loud?" grumbled Nichols, reddening under the reproof. "There ain’t no use hollering my name all around. Ready? I can’t wait much longer."

"In just a minute," and Noyes went over to the bedside. The sheriff, stepping back to make room for him, transferred his regard[286] to Vera. He had been aware of her sudden start on hearing who he was, but he learned nothing from his scrutiny, for Vera’s usually mobile face was expressionless as she waited for the surgeon’s instructions.

"Keep up the same treatment, Miss Deane," directed Noyes. "I may be back in an hour, or not for several days. Come, sheriff," and they filed from the room, Nichols’ glance lighting for an instant on the large open transom over Craig Porter’s bed, but his last look was for Vera who stood with head half averted, watching her patient.

The shutting of the door roused Vera from her contemplation and she went busily about her duties, and when at last she sat down the room was in apple-pie order. There was little she could do for Craig, except rearrange pillows and adjust sheets, and while Craig could not by sign or word make known his wants, she had the knack of making her patients comfortable. But Vera was not left long to her own reflections, for a tap at the door was followed by Murray’s entrance.

"Here is the bouillon, Miss Deane," he said, placing the tray on a stand. "And I[287] brought an additional pint of milk. Shall I put it in the refrigerator?"

"Yes, thanks." And Vera hastened to place a screen so that the wind would not blow on Craig as the footman opened the lower section of the window and stepped out on the little gallery where stood the small ice-box in which were kept supplies for the sick room.

Murray was some seconds in arranging the bottles to his satisfaction, and Vera relished the cool wind as it fanned her hot cheeks. She longed to be out-of-doors, but with Millicent ill she felt that it was but right to relieve Mrs. Hall so that the day nurse could attend the latest case. She, personally, did not require a great amount of sleep, and the events of the night before had effectually deprived her of peaceful slumber during the two hours she had lain down earlier in the morning. She felt that she could not rest until the mystery of the razor was explained, and yet how could she get an explanation from Millicent as to how the razor came into her possession, when she was too ill to be interviewed?

She had the alternative of asking Beverly[288] Thorne if he had taken the razor from her as they knelt in the shelter of the hedge waiting for Detective Mitchell to depart. But at the idea Vera’s heart beat with uncomfortable haste. Among her chaotic experiences following her pursuit of Millicent one incident was indelibly impressed upon her memory—Thorne’s impassioned whisper, "Vera, my love, my love!" as they crouched by the hedge, had not only reached her ears but found response in her heart.

"Have you heard the news, miss?" asked Murray, after carefully closing the window, and Vera, on the point of replacing the screen in its corner, paused and eyed him sharply.

"What news?"

"Dr. Noyes has been took."

"Took?"

"Arrested, miss; the perlice has him, at least, the sheriff." Murray scratched his head. "They both puts him in jail, leastways that’s what Mr. Hugh said just now before they went off in the motor."

The footman’s comments, however, fell on deaf ears. Alan Noyes arrested? Vera clung to the screen, her knees trembling under her.

[289]"Why did the sheriff arrest him?" she demanded, in barely more than a whisper.

"He thinks the doctor killed Mr. Brainard." Murray reached forward to catch her as she swayed toward him. "Did I tell you too sudden, miss? Will you have a drink?"

Vera breathed deeply. "No, no," she protested. "I—Dr. Noyes said that he might be back, but I did not understand." She stopped to gain control over her shaking voice. "Who will attend Mr. Craig now?"

"I don’t know, miss." Murray, like Vera, kept his voice lowered, and, standing on the other side of the screen, neither was aware of a movement in the other part of the room. "It don’t seem right, miss, when the doctor returned to attend Mr. Craig, that he should be taken away just when Mr. Craig needs him."

"Hush!" Vera held up a warning finger; her quick ears had caught the faint sound which accompanies the cautious closing of a door. Gliding from behind the screen she crossed the room and, peeping into the hall, was just in time to see the door of Millicent’s bedroom close. She stared thoughtfully at the mahogany door. It was not the sound[290] made by Millicent’s door which had disturbed her; someone had opened Craig Porter’s door and been in his bedroom while she and the footman stood talking behind the screen. Why had the person not announced his or her presence?

Vera turned back into the sick room and found Murray regarding Craig Porter sorrowfully. He was about to speak when he caught her gesture enjoining silence, and without a word tiptoed from the room.

Several minutes elapsed before Vera moved over to the lunch tray and drank the bouillon almost at a gulp. As she set down the cup her eyes fell on a letter addressed to her lying on the tray. The envelope bore the words "Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia" in the left-hand corner, and Vera almost snatched it up. Before she had more than torn off the envelope a rap sounded on the door, and still clutching the unread letter she went to answer it and discovered Dorothy standing in the hall.

"I can’t come in." Dorothy drew back and her low, strained voice seemed a counterpart of the haggard lines in her white face. "Do you know, Vera, that they have arrested Alan Noyes for the murder of Bruce?"

[291]"I have just heard it." Vera glanced cautiously up and down the hall; apparently they had it to themselves. She pulled the bedroom door almost shut behind her. "Where is Hugh Wyndham?"

"Gone with Alan Noyes and the sheriff to the court house." Dorothy laid a steadying hand against the wall; she was trembling from head to foot. "Mrs. Porter said Hugh would arrange for Alan’s release on bail. Vera," lifting pleading, anguished eyes to her sister, "are you going to speak?"

A heavy tread on the stairs reached them, and without word or sign Vera retreated into the bedroom, leaving her sister’s question unanswered. With the door once safely closed she stopped and regarded Craig Porter, then going over to the desk she took up the chart and, glancing at her watch, registered the time and made the entry:

"Patient renews plucking at bedclothes."

Putting down the chart she took up the letter from the telephone company, and smoothing out the sheet read the typewritten lines. It was from the branch manager of the company:

[292]In response to your request for information regarding the telephone call received by Central from the Porter mansion at 5.55 A.M. on Tuesday of this week, would say that Central reports that Dr. Beverly Thorne’s residence was called for, the speaker being a woman.

Very truly yours—

"The speaker being a woman—" Vera dropped the letter as if it burned her fingers. Only one woman was in the library besides herself at 5.55 A.M. Tuesday morning—and that woman was Millicent Porter.

[293]
CHAPTER XVIII
THE COUNTERFEIT BANK NOTE
WYNDHAM turned his roadster into the river road and, seeing no vehicle approaching along the straight stretch ahead of him, pressed the accelerator and his car raced homeward. He had found Alan Noyes, his only companion, morose to a degree of rudeness, and had forborne to address him after leaving the county court house. The hearing before Judge Ball had been a tedious affair, and the arranging of bail hampered by red tape, and it was long after the luncheon hour when Noyes was finally permitted to return to Dewdrop Inn with Wyndham.

They had traversed a third of the distance homeward along the river road when Noyes touched Wyndham and signed to him to stop. Somewhat surprised, Wyndham drew the car to one side and slowed down as Noyes bent forward and fumbled with the catch of the door.

[294]"I’ll walk home from here," he said, springing out of the car. He reddened as he turned back to hold out his hand to Wyndham. "You’ve been awfully good, old chap; I shan’t forget it, but just now I must be by myself"—he hesitated—"a walk will do me good; see you later."

Wyndham wrung his hand. "You’ve been through a lot; just walk off steam, but don’t get lost in the woods." He started the car forward, but before rounding the next curve he looked back and was surprised to see Noyes still standing where he had left him, looking from the bluff down the valley. The ground toward the river dipped abruptly at that point and Wyndham, stopping his car, rose in his seat and gazed in the direction Noyes was facing. His only reward was an excellent view of the river and the peaceful countryside, and he was about to drop back in his seat and proceed homeward when he saw Noyes turn, cross the road, and disappear up the hillside. He had been gone but a minute when Wyndham, looking again toward the river, was surprised to see a figure standing near the river bank. The man was too far away for Wyndham to see who he[295] was. The next instant he, too, had disappeared, and Wyndham, after a moment’s indecision, resumed his place behind the steering wheel and started for home; he was not Noyes’ keeper, and if the detectives wished to trail Noyes while he was out on bail, it was the Englishman’s responsibility and not his.

Reaching a crossroad Wyndham hesitated, then turning his car into the highway which skirted Thornedale, he continued along it until opposite the embankment where he had encountered Millicent Porter the night before and Beverly Thorne that morning. He stopped the car and, going over to the roadside, walked along it. The crushed and bedraggled condition of the creeping myrtle vines a little further on attracted his attention, and bending down he thrust his hand along until he touched the muzzle of the old cannon. Bending still farther downward he ran his hand inside the cannon and withdrew it a second later—empty.

"Could I have been wrong?" he muttered. "Millicent used to hide her toys and candy there—what more likely than that she thought of the old cannon if she wished to hide—" He broke off to stare moodily at the ground.[296] Someone besides himself had examined the cannon since he had last been there; otherwise he would have noticed the torn vines that morning. And that man could have been none other than Beverly Thorne; he also knew of the cannon—had he, too, gone away empty-handed?

Wyndham was in no pleasant humor when he stopped at the garage and, turning over his car to the chauffeur, he went at once to the house. Instead of finding his aunt in the library as he had hoped, a stranger rose at his entrance and bowed politely.

"Is this Mr. Wyndham?"

"Yes." Wyndham’s manner was not overly cordial; it was not customary to admit strangers to the library; they were usually shown into the reception-room. "Have you called to see my aunt, Mrs. Porter?"

"No, sir, I came to see you." The stranger took out his card case. "I gave my card to the butler and he asked me to wait in here. I am Sam Anthony, of the United States Secret Service," displaying his badge as he presented his card to Wyndham.

Wyndham barely glanced at the engraved pasteboard; his manner had thawed perceptibly.[297] "Sit down, Mr. Anthony," he said, dragging forward a chair. "I’m sorry to have kept you waiting. What can I do for you?"

"If you will answer a few questions." Anthony resumed his seat. "Were you in Brentano’s bookstore yesterday afternoon?"

"I was."

"You ordered some visiting-cards for Miss Vera Deane?"

"I did." Wyndham’s surprise at the question was apparent.

"And paid for the cards with a ten-dollar Treasury bill?"

"Yes," responded Wyndham, and his manner had grown alert. "What then?"

"The bill was an exceedingly dangerous counterfeit."

"What!" Wyndham sat bolt upright. "Are you sure?"

"Positive." Anthony took out his bill-folder and selected a gold bank note. "It’s a wonder," he added, feeling it tenderly. "Never would have aroused suspicion at the bank but that Chief Connor warned them only today to be on the lookout for such a note."

"Let me see it." And Wyndham carried[298] the bank bill to the light, turning his back squarely upon the Secret Service agent as he faced the window. When he looked up from examining the bill he started slightly at finding Anthony standing at his elbow.

"I would never have suspected the bill," he said, handing it back. "It looks absolutely genuine."

Anthony nodded. "It’s the work of a genius," he admitted. "Who gave you the bill, Mr. Wyndham?"

"Let me see." Wyndham half closed his eyes in thought, and under lowered lids observed the Secret Service agent. Anthony cloaked his ability under a sleepy manner and sleek appearance, and with him patience was more than a virtue; it was a profession. Dogged perseverance had won hard-earned promotion for him. He waited in silence for Wyndham to continue his remarks. "Why do you ask where I got the note?" the latter demanded, and his tone was crisp.

"Because we must trace it; and it will help materially if you can tell me where you procured the bill."

"In that case"—Wyndham returned to his chair, but remained standing, one hand on[299] the back of it—"the bank note was given me by Miss Dorothy Deane."

"The trained nurse?"

"No, her sister." Wyndham looked closely at Anthony. "You know the Misses Deane?"

"Never had the pleasure of meeting them." Anthony sank down in his seat. "Are they both here?"

"Yes."

"Then can I see Miss Dorothy Deane?"

"I am afraid not, as she is with my cousin, Miss Porter, who is ill in bed." Wyndham pushed his chair aside. "I will go and ask Miss Deane what she knows about the Treasury bill."

"Good."

"I’ll be back in a second." Wyndham hastened to the door and, not waiting for a response, hurried upstairs and went at once to his aunt’s boudoir. To his delight he found Dorothy sitting there alone.

"Hugh!" Dorothy sprang to her feet. "You have news?" studying his face. "What is it, dear?"

"Nothing alarming," taking her hand in a firm, reassuring clasp. "You recall giving me a ten-dollar bank bill to pay for the visiting-cards[300] I ordered at Brentano’s for Vera—"

"Yes, perfectly," she said. "What of it?"

"Where did you get the money?"

"From Vera. Why?" Her surprise growing at the continued questioning.

Mrs. Porter’s doorknob rattled as a hand grasped it on the other side of the closed door, and Wyndham retreated into the hall.

"Tell you later," he called, closing the door, but before doing so he caught the sound of Mrs. Porter’s voice raised in querulous questioning.

Wyndham went immediately to Craig Porter’s bedroom, and Vera answered his soft rap on the door. He signed to her to step into the hall, and she did so with evident reluctance.

"Dorothy wishes to know where the ten-dollar bank note came from which you gave her on Thursday," he began stiffly. He both felt and resented Vera’s altered attitude toward him. "My question is not prompted by idle curiosity," he explained before she could speak. "I will explain later; just now I am in a hurry."

Vera eyed him distrustfully. "It is hardly a question of any importance; Millicent[301] cashed a check for me in Washington the first of the week, Monday to be exact—"

"Where did she cash the check?"

"At her bank I suppose," coldly. "My check was good—"

"Oh, yes; it was nothing of that kind," in embarrassment. "I’ll tell you all about it bye and bye." And he hastened downstairs, leaving Vera staring after him in bewilderment.

Wyndham found the Secret Service agent waiting for him at the foot of the staircase, his overcoat over his arm and hat in hand.

"I didn’t meet with much luck, Mr. Anthony," he said. "The trail of the counterfeiter doubles back to Washington."

"Ah! Miss Dorothy Deane had it given to her there?"

"No; her sister, Miss Vera Deane, gave her the bill." Wyndham came down the remaining steps to assist Anthony on with his overcoat.

"Then Miss Vera Deane owned the bank note?" Anthony buttoned his coat with exactitude. "And where did Miss Vera Deane secure the note?"

"My cousin, Miss Millicent Porter, cashed[302] Miss Deane’s check on Monday and gave her the money."

Anthony regarded Wyndham in silence before putting another question. "Where did your cousin cash the check?"

"At her bank," mentioning a well-known establishment. "So you see, you will have to commence your investigations in Washington."

"It would seem so," acknowledged Anthony, pausing on the portico as Wyndham stood in the front doorway. "I am greatly obliged for your courtesy. Good afternoon." And hardly waiting to hear Wyndham’s hearty assurance of renewed assistance if he required aid, Anthony ran down the portico steps and walked toward the entrance of the grounds.

On reaching the lodge gates he signaled a waiting taxi, but as he was about to enter and be driven back to Washington, an idea occurred to him, and he curtly told the chauffeur to wait, then turning to the lodgekeeper’s wife inquired the way to Thornedale.

"The next property, sor; you enter beyond," called the Irishwoman, pointing down the road to where a dilapidated gate hung on[303] one hinge, and, nodding his thanks, Anthony hastened to Thornedale.

In spite of its obvious need of repair the Secret Service agent was impressed by the appearance of the old hunting lodge, with its rambling wings, upper gallery, and gabled roof. The old place was picturesque in its winter setting, and Anthony wondered at its air of emptiness. The blinds in only a few of the rooms were drawn up, and the house appeared deserted.

After repeated rings Anthony finally heard the chain being lowered, and the door opened several inches to permit Cato’s black face to appear in the crack.

"Dr. Thorne am out," he volunteered, before Anthony could state his errand, and made as if to shut the door, but the Secret Service agent’s foot blocked his effort.

"I’ll wait for the doctor," he said, holding out a visiting-card, which Cato took, and, putting on a pair of horn spectacles, regarded solemnly. The spectacles had been purchased from an itinerant merchant, but he could not read, with or without the glasses; they were only for the elegance which Cato thought went with his position in the family.

[304]"Is yo’ come to see Marse Beverly professionally?" he asked, bringing out the last word with a flourish.

"Yes," responded Anthony quickly, and Cato’s manner thawed.

"Step right in, suh," he said, throwing wide the door. "Dar’s a gen’man awaitin’ a’ready. Ef yo’ jes’ make yo’self com’foble," wheeling forward a large chair. "De doctor’ll be ’long d’reckly. Dar he is now," as the portières were pulled back from the entrance to the dining-room. "No, it ain’t, nuther," he added, catching a glimpse of the newcomer. "It’s Mister Mitchell. Is yo’ tired ob waitin’, suh?" as the detective walked into the living-room.

"Didn’t I hear Dr. Thorne arrive?" asked Mitchell, looking about, and at sight of Anthony he whistled in surprise. "You here? Anything wrong?"

"Feeling feverish," returned Anthony, with a warning glance toward Cato, who was shuffling toward the staircase. "I called to see Dr. Thorne professionally."

"Is that so?" Mitchell selected a chair near the fireplace. "I wasn’t aware that Dr. Thorne ever had office practice."

[305]The remark was overheard by Cato, and he turned with a reproving air to Mitchell.

"’Deed he do, an’ right smart patients come hyar from de city, too," warming to his subject as he saw Mitchell’s skeptical air. "Dat ’er’ gen’man what was murdered at de Porters’ was hyar to consult wid him on Monday evenin’."

"He was!" Mitchell nearly fell out of his chair, and recovering from his astonishment regarded the negro intently. "Why haven’t you spoken of it before?"

"’Cause I doan talk ’bout my marster’s affairs," with offended dignity. "But I wants you to unnerstan’, Mr. Detective Man, dat my marster has de quality hyar same as always."

"Sure, he does," agreed Mitchell heartily. "But I’ve never seen an office in this house, and was not aware that Dr. Thorne kept regular office hours."

"He do." Cato looked somewhat mollified. "De office is out dat away," jerking his thumb toward one of the wings. "I’ll get some kindlin’ wood an’ start de fire fo’ yo’ gen’men; it’s gettin’ colder."

It was not until his hobbling footsteps had[306] entirely died away that Mitchell turned to the Secret Service agent.

"What brings you here, Anthony?" he questioned rapidly. "Surely not the need for medical advice; you look as sound as a dollar."

Anthony grinned cheerfully. "I have a clean bill of health," he said. "My ailment was a polite fiction invented for the benefit of the old negro. The Chief told me that you were on the Brainard murder case, and Headquarters said you were apt to be found here, so—I came."

"What interest has the Chief in the Brainard murder?" demanded Mitchell, his professional jealousy aroused. "Why has he sent you here?"

A subdued bumping and labored breathing announced the approach of Cato, and Mitchell’s question remained unanswered as the old servant shuffled over to the fireplace and proceeded to build a fire on the bed of ashes. Anthony studied him for some little time in silence, then becoming aware that Cato, while pretending to be absorbed in his work, was covertly watching them, he turned and addressed Mitchell.

[307]"I’ve heard that Dr. Thorne is a wonder at diagnosing a case—that he has marvelous instinct—"

Cato faced about in wrath, one hand poised in air clutched a piece of kindling. "What yo’ mean by sayin’ my marster’s got instinct?" he retorted. "He ain’t got no instinct—he’s got insense."

Anthony retreated out of reach of the kindling wood. "Everyone tells me that Dr. Thorne is a fine physician," he hastened to say. "I was complimenting him."

"Was yo’?" Cato looked doubtful. "Then I ax yo’ pardon." He placed the last piece of kindling on the hearth and throwing on several logs paused to see them catch, and again hobbled from the room. Mitchell waited a minute, then tiptoed to the door leading to the kitchen and made sure that Cato had really disappeared. Finally convinced that Cato was not within earshot, he turned to his companion.

"You haven’t answered my question. Why is the Secret Service interested in Bruce Brainard’s murder?"

"It isn’t interested in the murder, that I am aware of," replied Anthony, moving his[308] chair closer to Mitchell. "I was sent here to trace a counterfeit Treasury note presented in payment at Brentano’s store by Hugh Wyndham, and he tells me that the bank note was received by Miss Millicent Porter when cashing a check at her bank."

"Humph! it must have been a marvelous counterfeit to get by a bank teller," commented Mitchell. "So you had your trip here for nothing?"

"I am not so sure of that." Anthony lowered his voice. "Wyndham told me that the bank note was first given him by Miss Dorothy Deane; she states that she received it from her sister, Vera Deane, and the latter declares that she got it from Miss Millicent Porter, who cashed her check in Washington on Monday morning."

"Well, that’s straight enough," exclaimed Mitchell impatiently. "Better question the bank officials, Anthony."

"I will—later. Just now I want a little information about the Deane girls. Have you been in touch with them while investigating the Brainard murder? I ask," he added slowly, "because a bag containing some counterfeit money was found on a street car. In[309] the handbag was a visiting-card bearing Vera Deane’s name. Taking that in consideration with Wyndham’s statement that Miss Deane’s sister had given him the counterfeit bill—it looks fishy."

Mitchell smiled skeptically. "Come, come, you don’t think those two former society girls made a counterfeit bill which would deceive a bank teller? Why, Anthony, it takes years to perfect a good counterfeit."

"I know it," grumbled Anthony. "I don’t suspect them of being the actual counterfeiters, but they may be affiliated with him, possibly innocently, and be putting money in circulation without being aware of the deception."

"That’s an ingenious theory," acknowledged Mitchell.

"Can you tell me who the Deane girls go with?" asked Anthony. "You’ve been watching the Porter house ever since the discovery of Brainard’s murder."

"They haven’t been going with anyone in particular," grumbled Mitchell, not altogether liking the other’s tone. "Vera Deane, the nurse, stays close indoors, and Dorothy Deane is mostly with Millicent Porter and[310] Hugh Wyndham. They haven’t seen any outsiders since I’ve been here. I’ve always thought, however, that Vera Deane knows more than she will admit about Brainard’s murder, but so far she has been too slick for me to catch her tripping."

"When is Miss Deane off duty?"

Mitchell looked at his watch. "She should be at leisure now."

"Excellent." Anthony rose. "I’ll return and ask to see her. Come with me—?"

"I can’t." Mitchell eyed his companion sharply; in spite of rivalry they had always been friends, and he badly wanted advice. "Did you hear Cato blurt out that Bruce Brainard was in this house on Monday evening? It must have been before he went to dine at the Porters’, because he never left that house alive."

"Well, what if he did come here before going to the Porters’?" Anthony stared at the detective. "What’s there in that to get excited about?"

"Why hasn’t Thorne ever spoken of knowing Brainard? Why has he never alluded to Brainard’s visit on Monday?" Mitchell’s excitement, until then bottled up, rose to fever[311] heat. "Thorne and I have discussed every phase of the murder, and he has never once said that he even knew Brainard by sight. I don’t understand such conduct, unless—"

"Go slow," cautioned Anthony hastily. "Just because the doctor doesn’t take the world into his confidence about his numerous patients doesn’t mean that he is a murderer."

"Wait," urged Mitchell. "Brainard’s throat was cut with a razor which no one in the Porter household can identify—or will identify," he supplemented. "The razor belonged to a set. This morning I found five razors, the mates to the one on Brainard’s bed, hidden in the muzzle of an old cannon on this place, and I am convinced Beverly Thorne knew they were in the cannon."

"Did you see him place them there?"

"No, of course not," reddening angrily. "I am waiting here to question Thorne. He hasn’t been here since early this morning, according to that old idiot, Cato. And it was this morning that I found Thorne and Wyndham sitting together near the cannon." Mitchell came to a full stop as a new idea dawned upon him. "By gracious! I wonder[312] if Wyndham knew Thorne had secreted the razors in the cannon?"

"Ask him," suggested Anthony and rose impatiently. "I’ve got to be going. Don’t do too much guesswork, Mitchell; remember, you must find a motive for murder. What motive would Dr. Thorne have for killing Brace Brainard?"

The detective flushed. "What motive would Vera Deane have for planting counterfeit money?" he growled. "Don’t go too slow, Anthony, or your counterfeiter will escape."

"I’m not worrying." Anthony smiled provokingly as he reached for his hat. "Chief Connor has sent a dozen men over here. He believes in following a hot trail, and I reckon we’ll get ‘Gentleman Charlie.’ See you shortly." And he left Mitchell sitting by the fire.

[313]
CHAPTER XIX
THE FIRST SHOT
MURRAY gave Mrs. Porter’s message to the chauffeur, and then took the vacant seat in the roadster.

"Just drop me at the house," he directed as the car left the garage. "And, remember, Jones, Mrs. Porter says you must bring out a new nurse from the hospital; that you are not to return without one. Here’s the letter to the Washington doctor."

"Whose place is the new nurse to take?" inquired the chauffeur, slipping the note in his pocket. "Miss Deane’s or Mrs. Hall’s?"

"Mrs. Porter didn’t mention, but I hope it is Mrs. Hall who is to go, she’s always complaining about the help."

Jones nodded sympathetically. "Cook told me she was forever finding fault with the food; says cook discriminates between her and Miss Deane—now, there’s a lady for you, and a good-looker!" in a burst of enthusiasm.[314] "Catch her poking her nose in the garage the way Mrs. Hall does. I came mighty near telling Mrs. Hall what I thought about her when I caught her fooling ’round yesterday; said she wanted to see Mr. Brainard’s car, and I told her the police had taken it away to return to the company from which Mr. Brainard rented it."

"Hey! you ain’t going in the right direction," objected Murray, as the chauffeur turned the car into the highway instead of taking the drive which circled the house.

"Sorry"—putting on the brake—"I clean forgot." Murray swung himself to the ground as the chauffeur added: "Who’s that waving to us?" catching sight of a man running toward them.

"I don’t know," replied Murray, and delayed his return to the house as the man came nearer. "Why, it’s the caller who waited to see Mr. Hugh this afternoon, name of Anthony."

"What’s he so excited about?" asked Jones, but before Murray could hazard a guess the Secret Service agent had reached the car.

"Which one of you can show me the way to[315] Elm Ridge?" he demanded, displaying a roll of money.

"I can’t." Jones suddenly recollected his errand. "Mrs. Porter has ordered me to drive to Washington." He eyed with regret the bank note which Anthony peeled from the roll. "Go ahead, Murray," he urged, "take the gentleman where he wants to go. You ain’t needed at the house until six o’clock."

Murray wavered. The tip was a big one which Anthony held tantalizingly in view, and Mrs. Porter had told him that tea was not to be served that afternoon; as Jones said, he could be absent for an hour. Anthony read his expression and thrust the money into his palm.

"Take me to Elm Ridge and back by a short cut and I’ll double the amount," he said.

Murray’s hesitation vanished, and with a wave of his hand to Jones, who had already started down the highway, he set out across the fields, the Secret Service agent at his elbow. They were in the heart of the woods which skirted the southern boundary of the Porter and Thorne estates, and were climbing[316] the ridge when a man, catching sight of them, advanced to meet Anthony.

"So Smoot reached you," he exclaimed in relief. "I wasn’t quite sure whether you’d be at Thornedale or the Porters’. Did he tell you—"

"Yes," shutting off his assistant’s loquacity. "Where are the boys?"

"Farther up; they sent me here to meet you," keeping step with Anthony as Murray dropped a little behind. "An old darky went by some little time ago, but I lost track of him."

Anthony turned and signed to Murray to join them. "Take us the shortest way to the top of the ridge," he ordered, and the footman once again led them up the steep incline.

They were almost at the top of the ridge when Anthony, stopping to get his breath after a rapid spurt over the roughest of the climb, glanced to their left where the ground dipped into a ravine, and saw a man crouching behind a tree. Without rising, the latter signaled to the Secret Service agent, and Anthony, bidding Murray and his assistant come with him, hurried forward, and quickly reached the side of the crouching sentinel.

[317]"What is it, Boyd?" he asked, lowering his voice cautiously.

For answer the man pointed down the ravine and across a clearing to a log cabin which abutted the hillside.

"We’ve trailed him there," he said, "and are only waiting for a signal to close in. Hark! was that a whistle?" Murray, to whom the question was addressed, shook his head; he had not had such strenuous exercise in years, and perspiration streamed down his face.

"I don’t hear a thing," he muttered. The excitement of the others was contagious, and under its influence the footman forgot class distinction and nudged Anthony to get his attention. "Who are you and what are you after?"

Anthony, never removing his eyes from the cabin, displayed his badge. "We are trailing a dangerous counterfeiter," he explained. "You’d better go home, you may get hurt." Not waiting to see if his advice was followed, he beckoned to Boyd and his assistant. "Come ahead; we’ll rush the cabin."

The men started down the ravine simultaneously, leaving Murray standing by the[318] tree. The footman fidgeted for a second and glanced backward—the Secret Service agent’s advice was sound; his place was at the Porter mansion; it was not his business to assist in arresting malefactors. Murray glanced again at the men hastening toward the log cabin, and throwing reason to the far winds, he tore down the ravine, and caught up with them at the edge of the clearing.

A shot rang out, and Anthony, slightly in the lead, faltered. But its echoes had hardly ceased to resound through the stillness when a second shot broke on their ears. With a muttered curse Anthony sprang forward and threw himself through the partly open cabin door, the other men following pellmell.

Murray, the last to enter, stood appalled as he peered over Anthony’s shoulder at the tableau confronting them, then looked dumbly about the disordered cabin. Two large screens tumbled to one side, tables and chairs overturned, made a dramatic setting for the still figure lying crumpled up on the floor and the man crouching above it, a still smoking revolver held aloft. As the latter turned and faced the Secret Service operatives a strangled exclamation broke from Murray.

[319]"Dr. Thorne!"

Thorne tossed the revolver to Anthony. "Take charge of that," he said. "Have that window opened and switch on the lights," nodding to a lamp, and Boyd turned on the current. "I must see how badly Dr. Noyes has hurt himself."

Anthony clutched the revolver, his eyes never leaving Thorne.

"Do you mean to say that Dr. Noyes shot himself?" he demanded.

"I do," calmly, and Thorne busied himself in making a superficial examination of the wound. "Fortunately the bullet did not enter a vital point; lend me your handkerchiefs." And with the assistance of Anthony he bound up the wound and rendered first aid. "Murray," addressing the agitated footman whose fingers had been all thumbs in his efforts to help restore Noyes to consciousness, "return at once to the Porters’ and have Noyes’ room prepared for him, but first stop at my house for surgical supplies."

"Very good, sir," and only lingering for one curious glance about the cabin, Murray departed.

"Suppose two of you take the door off its[320] hinges," went on Thorne. "We can carry Noyes home on that." Boyd hesitated and looked at Anthony for orders. Thorne was quick to note their suspicious glances. "Who are you?" he asked, as Anthony returned from a tour of inspection.

"We are members of the United States Secret Service," and again Anthony displayed his badge. "We came here to arrest a notorious counterfeiter."

"Sorry to disappoint you," remarked Thorne dryly.

Anthony flushed scarlet. "I find enough contraband property here to convict the owner as a dangerous counterfeiter," he said. "You have not yet explained your presence, Dr. Thorne."

"My presence can be attributed to idle curiosity," was Thorne’s tranquil answer as the men gathered about him. "I was passing the cabin, saw the door standing ajar, and entered. I had been here only a very few minutes when I heard a shot and tearing aside that screen," pointing to it, "saw poor Noyes fall to the floor. I had just taken the revolver from him when you entered so spectacularly."

Anthony did not miss a word of Thorne’s[321] explanation. "You claim, then, that you did not know anyone else was in the cabin until you heard the shot?"

"I mean exactly that," with emphasis. "I thought I was alone in the cabin. I haven’t the faintest idea what brought Dr. Noyes, the English surgeon who is visiting the Porters," he interpolated, "to this cabin."

"He can explain that when he regains consciousness," exclaimed Anthony. "It will not take us long to carry him to the Porters’, if you think it safe to move him."

"I do." And Thorne made ready to rise from his place by Noyes. "By the way, before hearing the report of Noyes’ revolver, I heard a shot—who fired the first shot?"

"That is for you to explain." Anthony stooped under a table and picked up a revolver. With a deft turn of his wrist he opened the breech. "One chamber has been fired."

[322]
CHAPTER XX
KA
DETECTIVE Mitchell hung up the telephone receiver and sat glaring at the instrument.

"Well, I’m d—ned!" he muttered. It was some moments before he rose and went in search of Cato, but although he hunted through the entire first floor of Thornedale and called upstairs until he was hoarse, Mitchell was unable to find the old negro, and at last gave up the search. Over an hour had elapsed since the departure of Anthony, the Secret Service agent, and still Thorne had not returned. Mitchell’s impatience got the better of him, and, not troubling to leave a written message, he left the house and walked rapidly to Dewdrop Inn.

Mrs. Porter, dressed for walking, was standing in the front doorway as Mitchell came up the steps, and she greeted his appearance with a frown.

[323]"Do you desire to see me?" she inquired. "I am just going out."

Mitchell, however, did not stand aside for her to walk past him.

"I am very sorry, madam, to detain you," he said firmly. "But it is imperative that I have a talk with you at once."

Mrs. Porter whitened under her rouge. "It is quite unnecessary to adopt that tone to me," she retorted. "I can spare you a few minutes, not more. Walk inside," and she stepped back into the hall.

Mitchell closed the front door with a bang and tossed his hat and overcoat on the hall table.

"Has Dr. Alan Noyes returned from the court house?" he asked.

"Not yet." Mrs. Porter moistened her lips nervously. "I expect him here at any moment."

"Suppose we go into the library," suggested Mitchell, seeing that she made no sign to admit him further into the house. "Then, kindly oblige me by sending for Miss Deane."

Mitchell had not troubled to lower his voice, and his words were distinctly audible[324] to Dorothy Deane, who was sitting on the top step of the staircase. She waited until she heard Mrs. Porter and Mitchell go in the direction of the library, then sped to Craig Porter’s door and, jerking it open, she beckoned to her sister to come into the hall.

"Vera," she said in little more than a whisper, "Alan Noyes is evidently detained at the court house, and—and—Detective Mitchell is down in the library waiting to see you."

Vera stood as if turned into marble, then she drew a long, painful breath.

"Very well"—her voice was not quite steady, and she cleared her throat before continuing—"I will see Detective Mitchell at once. Where is Hugh Wyndham?"

Dorothy flinched, and her eyes fell before her sister’s direct gaze. "I don’t know—I can’t find him anywhere about the place. Oh, Vera," coloring painfully, "must you tell all?"

Vera nodded. "It would have been better had I been frank in the first place," she said dully. "God knows, I acted for the best. I can’t leave Craig Porter alone, Dorothy. Where is Mrs. Hall?"

[325]"With Millicent, I suppose. I haven’t seen her lately."

"Then you sit with Craig until I return." Vera pushed Dorothy gently through the doorway. "Call me if he requires medical assistance." And pulling the door shut before Dorothy could recover from her surprise, Vera squared her shoulders and walked downstairs.

Dorothy continued to stare at the closed door for some seconds, then turned her attention to Craig Porter, but his emaciated appearance was a distinct shock to her, and when she looked away her eyes were blurred with tears. Afraid to give way in the slightest degree to her emotions for fear they would master her, she walked back and forth with noiseless tread.

The minutes seemed endless, and in agony over the scene which her active imagination painted going on in the library, Dorothy at last paused before the huge mirror over the mantel and stared at herself. Dark circles under her eyes and her total lack of color told plainly of mental anguish, and with a shudder she moved away. The desk next attracted her wandering attention, and she picked up the[326] nurse’s chart and a pencil and subconsciously read the last entry in Vera’s handwriting: "Patient continues plucking at clothing."

Dropping the chart she walked over to the foot of the bed and regarded Craig Porter. A great pity for him drove, for the moment, her own problems out of her mind. They had been "pals" while she was at boarding-school and he a junior at Yale, and as memories returned of his merry disposition and gallant bearing a lump rose in her throat, and she hastily looked away.

A glance at the open transom over the head of Craig’s bed sent her thoughts again to the tragedy enacted in the next room on Tuesday morning.

"Only four days ago," she murmured, and choked back a sob. Again she looked at Craig. He lay rigidly on his back, his eyes half closed, and she wondered if he could be asleep or unconscious. The only indication of life was the moving finger plucking always at the sheet drawn across his chest.

Dorothy’s thoughts again reverted to Vera and Detective Mitchell. What was transpiring in the library? It was cruel to keep her in such suspense. In her extreme nervousness[327] she drummed the pencil which she still held against the footboard of the bed, and her eyes resting still on Craig’s hand, she unconsciously beat time to his slow-moving finger.

Painfully, laboriously the finger moved back a longer distance, then a shorter distance, then longer—and Dorothy’s pencil beat out each stroke: — · — · —

The tap of her pencil penetrated her absent-mindedness, and Dorothy stared at Craig—what had possessed her to spell out "KA," the wireless "attention" call which precedes every transmission?

Again her eyes traveled to Craig’s hand, and the moving finger in contrast to his motionless figure and expressionless face fascinated her. Again she spelled out the "attention" signal, her pencil tapping off each short or long movement of his finger. But this time the "KA" signal was followed by her initials, and the signal: · — ···, "wait."

Dorothy, half doubting her senses, tapped off: — · — "K," the official call to "go ahead."

Craig’s finger remained motionless for a longer period, then once again it spelled a message to her, and as she caught its full[328] significance, she with difficulty checked a scream. With shaking fingers she tapped out the question:

"Who murdered Bruce Brainard?"

Breathlessly she waited for the response.

Slowly, very slowly Craig’s finger checked off the answer, and Dorothy, her senses reeling, leaned far over the bed and looked into Craig’s eyes. They held the light of reason. With a choking sob she sank senseless to the floor.

[329]
CHAPTER XXI
BLIND MAN’S BUFF
VERA glanced neither to the right nor to the left as she walked with firm steps toward the library, and thereby missed seeing a face peering at her from behind the folds of the portières which hung in front of the reception-room entrance. Her fixed resolve to get the interview with Detective Mitchell over and done with aided her in suppressing all sign of agitation, and her demeanor was calm and collected when she approached Mrs. Porter, who occupied her customary seat before the library table. Mitchell had planted himself at the opposite side of the table and spread several typewritten sheets before him. He did not rise on Vera’s entrance.

Mrs. Porter, who sat with one eye on the door, was the first to address Vera.

"Detective Mitchell desires to question you, Vera," she said. "Sit here by me." And she touched the girl reassuringly.

[330]Vera almost exclaimed aloud at the coldness of her fingers. "Are you having a chill, Mrs. Porter?" she asked in alarm, observing the bluish hue of her lips. "Would you like some brandy?"

"No." Mrs. Porter’s tone did not encourage further solicitude. "As soon as Mr. Mitchell completes his visit I shall go for a walk. Continue your remarks, Mr. Mitchell."

Mitchell was about to comply with her injunction when Vera, who had remained standing by Mrs. Porter, spoke first.

"I have heard that Dr. Alan Noyes has been arrested for the murder of Mr. Bruce Brainard. Is that correct?"

"Yes." Mitchell, keeping his finger at a certain point in the manuscript before him, watched Vera closely.

"Then the police have acted most unjustly," exclaimed Vera vehemently. "Dr. Noyes is innocent."

"Your grounds for that assertion?"

Vera hesitated, glanced dubiously at Mrs. Porter, whose adamantine expression gave her no encouragement, and then addressed Mitchell.

"I believe—" Her clear voice faltered, and[331] she commenced again. "I believe that no murder was committed—Mr. Brainard killed himself."

Mitchell made no attempt to conceal his incredulity. "Medical evidence proves that the wound in his throat could not have been self-inflicted except by a left-handed man," he rejoined. "And reputable witnesses have proved that Bruce Brainard was not left-handed."

"But he was ambidextrous," retorted Vera. "He could shave himself with equal facility with either hand."

Mitchell stared at her astounded, while Mrs. Porter, hanging on her words, drew a deep, deep breath.

"Where did you learn that about Bruce Brainard?" demanded Mitchell.

Vera met the detective’s accusing gaze squarely. "He told me so himself."

"What?" Mitchell leaned across the table in his eagerness. "Did Brainard tell you that he was ambidextrous on Monday night?"

"No."

"Then you had known him before Monday night?"

[332]"I had."

Mitchell sat back in his chair and scowled at Vera.

"Why did you not mention in your testimony at the inquest on Tuesday that you had known Bruce Brainard formerly?" His manner was stern. "You gave us to understand that you had not met Brainard until sent for to attend him after dinner on Monday night."

"I was not asked the direct question as to whether we had ever met before," replied Vera. "I did not volunteer the information because—"

"Because it would have led to an investigation of your acquaintance with him," with insolent meaning, and Vera, her hot blood dancing in her veins, stepped nearer the detective, her eyes blazing with pent-up wrath.

Mrs. Porter, rising suddenly, intervened. "Stop, Mr. Mitchell; if you insult Miss Deane I shall have my servants eject you," she said, and her slow, level tones warned the detective that he must not go too far in his heckling tactics. But before he could resume questioning Vera the library door, which she[333] had left ajar on entering, was pushed open and Mrs. Hall came into the room.

"I couldn’t help overhearing what has just been said," she began, ignoring Mrs. Porter’s indignant glare. "I was on my way to the pantry to get some bouillon for Miss Porter when I heard you talking." She looked meaningly at Vera. "I’ve held my peace, Miss Deane, out of kindness to you; but now that Dr. Noyes is accused of killing Mr. Brainard it’s time for me to tell the detectives what I know about you."

Vera gazed at her in amazement too deep for expression, while Mitchell, his eyes shining with excitement, stepped from behind the table.

"Go on, Mrs. Hall," he said encouragingly. "Tell me everything."

"I will." Mrs. Hall paused dramatically. "On Tuesday morning about four o’clock I was awakened by hearing someone moving about in the dressing-room which connects our bedroom with Mr. Porter’s. I got up and looked through the partly open door and was surprised to see Miss Deane slipping on a fresh white skirt, while before her stretched over the stationary washstand was[334] another skirt on which were bloodstains." A low cry from Mrs. Porter interrupted her, and Mrs. Hall paused, to continue more rapidly as she met Vera’s indignant gaze.

"There was something secretive in Miss Deane’s air that stopped my impulse to ask her what she was about, and I went at once by way of the hall to Mr. Porter’s bedroom, thinking perhaps he might have had a hemorrhage; but I found him lying as usual, apparently asleep. I did not then know that Mr. Brainard was in the next bedroom. Thinking Miss Deane had had a nosebleed I went back to my room and to bed, as I had not been well the day before and needed rest. Some time later Miss Deane came in carrying a skirt in her hand. Hanging it up in the closet, she returned to Mr. Porter’s bedroom."

"What happened after that?" prompted Mitchell as she stopped.

"I got out of bed and went over to the closet and examined the white skirt which Miss Deane had hung there a few minutes before. The bloodstains had been carefully removed with the aid of cornstarch, and a hot iron passed over the skirt. There is an electric iron and battery for our use in the[335] dressing-room," she supplemented. "The white skirt bore Miss Deane’s initials inside the belt."

"Why have you not told all this before?" asked Mrs. Porter, staring at Mrs. Hall with intense dislike discernible.

"I waited, hoping that Miss Deane would voluntarily explain her connection with the murder of Mr. Brainard." Mrs. Hall moved uneasily; she was not pleased with the role Fate had cast for her, but a growing jealousy, fostered by envy, kept her to her determination to tell all she surmised against Vera Deane. "As Miss Deane has not done so, and is sheltering herself behind the arrest of an innocent man—"

"Stop!" commanded Mrs. Porter. "Your unsupported charges cannot involve Vera Deane in Bruce Brainard’s murder."

"Ah, but they can, in view of what I already know," broke in Mitchell triumphantly. "Police Headquarters in Pittsburgh reported to me on the long-distance telephone, Miss Deane, that they had found among the court records a certificate of the marriage of Bruce Brainard and your sister, Dorothy."

Mrs. Porter collapsed in her chair in speechless[336] astonishment and stared at Vera, whose set face was as white as her linen uniform.

"Is this true?" she gasped.

"Yes," replied Vera. "They were married just after Dorothy left boarding-school. She met Bruce while visiting the Arnolds in Chicago; it was a runaway match."

Mitchell, who had listened closely to her statement, nodded his head. "So I learned, and my assistant, who has been investigating Brainard’s past career, also told me that Brainard deserted your sister two months after their elopement. He also refused to support her."

"On the contrary, my sister declined to be supported by him when she found what manner of man she had married," retorted Vera proudly. "She also refused to use his name, and never announced her marriage."

"But you knew it, and you knew what she had suffered at Brainard’s hands," broke in Mitchell roughly. "Do you deny this?"

"No."

Mitchell’s smile was not pleasant. "Were you also aware that your, eh, brother-in-law’s engagement to Miss Millicent Porter was announced on Monday night?"

[337]"Yes." Vera’s gaze did not shift and her voice was steady. "Mr. Hugh Wyndham told me of the rumored engagement."

"Hugh!" Mrs. Porter raised her hands to her temples in bewilderment. "Did Hugh know that Dorothy was the wife of Bruce Brainard?"

"Yes." Vera’s cold hands closed convulsively over the chair back against which she was leaning. "Dorothy was honest with him, Mrs. Porter."

"Poor Hugh!" exclaimed Mrs. Porter, her eyes filling with tears. "He loves her devotedly."

Mitchell moved impatiently. "Miss Deane, I want your full attention," he announced brusquely. "You have asserted that Bruce Brainard committed suicide. Where did he get the razor?"

Vera paused; should she speak of the razor which Millicent had dropped in her flight from the house the night before? After all, had Millicent dropped it? Was it fair to involve Millicent until she had first had an opportunity to explain?

Mitchell repeated his question with more emphasis: "Where did Brainard get the razor?"

[338]"I don’t know."

The detective moved closer. "Your theory is good, but it doesn’t hold water," he declared. "You recognized Bruce Brainard as your sister’s husband; you knew of his despicable conduct to your sister; you had just heard that he considered himself engaged to Miss Millicent Porter, in spite of the fact that the law courts would hold him legally married to your sister." Vera stirred uneasily. "You had Bruce Brainard here at your mercy—and Mrs. Hall saw you, nearly two hours before you admitted discovering the murder, removing bloodstains from your dress. Oh, come, you might as well confess—and claim the leniency of the court."

"I will claim nothing but fair play," cried Vera hotly. "I am innocent. I did not kill Bruce Brainard, much as I loathed and despised him."

"Then who did kill him?"

Mrs. Hall, who had drawn back as Mitchell approached Vera, was roughly pushed aside as Hugh Wyndham, making no attempt to conceal his anger, stepped in front of the detective.

"What’s going on here? What foolery are[339] you up to, Mitchell?" he demanded. "Vera, there’s no law which compels you to answer this man’s questions."

A clamor in the hall, which grew louder as footsteps approached, drowned Vera’s answer, and Millicent Porter, clutching Murray’s coat sleeve, burst into the room with the footman.

"There, there, miss, don’t take on so," pleaded Murray, hardly noticing the others in the library in his endeavor to calm Millicent. "I told you he wasn’t dead."

But Millicent was past calming and, her dressing-gown fluttering with the haste of her movements, she flung herself into her mother’s arms.

"Mother!" she moaned. "Alan has tried to kill himself. Oh, you must tell the police that the razor belonged to Craig."

A startled exclamation broke from Mitchell and Mrs. Porter winced.

"How would that clear Alan Noyes?" she asked bitterly. "I presented the set to Alan on Monday morning."

"But you know he never took them, mother," pleaded Millicent, her eyes dark with terror. "I found the set in your boudoir on Tuesday morning."

[340]"But one razor was missing—" The comment escaped Mrs. Porter unwittingly in the agitation of the moment.

"Hush! Mother, how could you?" Millicent clapped her hand on Mrs. Porter’s mouth and glanced fearfully around, to encounter Mitchell’s eager gaze, and shuddering she looked away.

Wyndham, who had listened to Millicent with tense eagerness, turned with such suddenness that he collided against the large leather bag which Murray was holding, having, in his excitement, forgotten to put it down. The bag, insecurely fastened, burst open and out rolled splints and bandages and a miscellaneous array of surgical instruments and a razor. Wyndham reached for it, but Mitchell jostled him to one side and picked it up.

"The razor is one of the set!" he cried. "Where did you get that bag, Murray?" clutching the footman and giving him a shake. "Answer!"

"From Dr. Thorne’s office, sir," stammered Murray. "The doctor sent me back to say that Dr. Noyes had shot himself and for the nurses to prepare his room; he also told me to stop at Thornedale to get surgical dressings.[341] The old butler didn’t answer the bell, so I climbed through a window and found this bag sitting in his office. I looked in it and seeing bandages and splints brought it along just as it was."

Vera looked quickly at Mitchell and his expression gave her the key to his thoughts—good heavens! Would he try to fix the crime upon Beverly Thorne? Could it be that Thorne, like the others, had believed her guilty of Brainard’s murder and had taken the razor from her so that it would not be found in her possession and further incriminate her? If so, he had jeopardized himself to protect her. Her face flamed at the thought.

"I can explain Dr. Thorne’s possession of the razor," she said clearly. "He got it from me."

"He did!" Mitchell wheeled on her. "So you admit at last that you had the razors."

"I admit that I picked up the razor after Millicent dropped it last night," retorted Vera.

"Millicent!" gasped Mrs. Porter.

"I thought I hid all six in the cannon," faltered Millicent, raising miserable, hunted eyes to Mitchell. "I admit I had the set—because—because—Murray, where did Dr.[342] Noyes shoot himself?" turning desperately to the footman.

"At that lean-to near the top of Elm Ridge." Murray’s eyes lighted on Mrs. Hall, who was edging her way to the door unobtrusively. "I went upstairs to find you, Mrs. Hall, to tell you they were bringing Dr. Noyes home, but I ran into Miss Millicent and she seen I was a little excited," with an apologetic glance at Mrs. Porter, who was paying scant attention to him as she strove to quiet Millicent. "She made me tell her about Dr. Noyes."

Nurse Hall, finding attention centered upon her, colored.

"I will go up and arrange the room now, that is, if I am not required here."

"You can go," directed Mitchell. "But remember, I must see you later."

"Yes, sir." And Mrs. Hall slipped away, only to return a moment later. "They are bringing Dr. Noyes in the front door, now," she announced. "And there’s a gentleman asking for you, Mr. Mitchell."

Before Mitchell reached the hall door Sam Anthony, the Secret Service agent, appeared at the threshold. "Bring Dr. Noyes in here,"[343] he called over his shoulder. Then addressing Mitchell: "He’s regained consciousness."

There was a surging toward the door of Mitchell, Wyndham and Murray, but they halted as two Secret Service operatives came in supporting Alan Noyes, who walked between them, Beverly Thorne’s arm steadying him from behind.

Noyes stopped at sight of Mitchell, and leaned wearily against Thorne.

"I asked for you," he began. "To give myself up for the murder of Bruce Brainard."

[344]
CHAPTER XXII
"THE MOVING FINGER WRITES—"
AHEARTRENDING scream broke from Millicent, and running to Noyes she flung herself at his feet.

"Alan, you never did it!" she protested vehemently. "You know you never did it."

"Don’t," he pleaded, grasping her hand weakly as the men helped him to the leather lounge. Once seated, he turned to Mitchell. "Take down what I say," he commenced. "Miss Porter and I quarreled Monday evening, just before dinner, and I threatened to kill Brainard—"

"Why?" asked Mitchell as he paused.

Noyes avoided looking at anyone in particular. "Blind fury," he admitted faintly. "I’ve been like that from a boy, whenever I couldn’t have my own way. I had just heard that Brainard was to marry the girl I loved—" His voice shook and he broke off abruptly.

Mrs. Porter rose; she had aged perceptibly.[345] "I tried my best to shield you, Alan—I can never forget all you have done for my son; my gratitude—" She could not control her voice and paused, then resumed, more slowly: "Millicent would not trust me, would not confide in me. Fearing her diary, in which she had been foolish enough to betray her growing affection for you, Alan, and in which she mentioned you had threatened to kill Bruce, would establish a motive for the crime if the detectives found the diary, I burned it." She shuddered. "Remember, Alan, you had run away—"

Noyes eyed her hopelessly. "There was nothing left for me to do but to go. As soon as my bag was packed I telephoned to my cousin, Mason Galbraith, who owns an estate across the river, and he met me at the wharf with his motor boat. I spent two days with him, but I had to come back to see—" He sighed and looked significantly at Mitchell. The pain of his wound and his conflicting emotions were wearing down his strength, and he felt that he could endure no more. "That is all, I think."

"Just a moment." Anthony stepped forward briskly. "Kindly answer a few questions.[346] Why did you try to kill yourself in the cabin and where did you get your revolver?"

"I was despondent, discouraged when I left the court house, and went into a shop in Alexandria and purchased a revolver while Wyndham stayed in court to engage a lawyer."

"Had you been to the cabin before?" shooting a swift glance at him. "Were you familiar with its contents?"

"I have passed the cabin on several of my rambles through the woods, but never had been inside it. As I went by the cabin I saw the door was insecurely fastened and went in."

"Did you find Dr. Thorne in the cabin?"

"No." Beverly Thorne, who had been scrutinizing each person in the room, his gaze resting longest on Vera, who avoided looking at him, could not repress a smile as he saw Anthony’s chagrin. "No one was in the cabin but myself," continued Noyes. "The stillness of the place got on my nerves, and I drew out my revolver—" He stopped and tried to withdraw his hand from Millicent’s detaining clasp. "I heard someone approaching the cabin and darted behind the screen, not caring to meet anyone—then a[347] shot startled me, and my revolver went off almost simultaneously, and my aim was poor—" His attempt at a smile was ghastly.

His companions were drinking in his words as they stood in a semicircle about the lounge on which Millicent had sunk beside Noyes. Mitchell, who was across from Thorne, saw him watching Vera, and turned his attention to her, but Anthony’s next words riveted his thoughts again on Noyes.

"You say you heard a shot, Dr. Noyes?" questioned Anthony. "From which direction did the shot come?"

"From outside the cabin," promptly. "It was somewhat muffled."

"You are sure it was not fired in the cabin?"

"I am."

Anthony turned bluntly to Thorne. "I guess that lets you out of one charge—you didn’t shoot Dr. Noyes, but—we still have to establish the identity of ‘Gentleman Charlie,’ the counterfeiter."

Thorne eyed the Secret Service agent in surprise mixed with amusement, but before he could reply Mitchell addressed him briskly.

"Suppose you tell me, Dr. Thorne, why Bruce Brainard stopped to see you on Monday[348] evening before coming here, and why you never spoke of his visit."

"Brainard had an attack of vertigo on the way here, and, meeting Cato, asked to be directed to the nearest physician," replied Thorne. "So Cato brought him to me."

Millicent, who had listened to Noyes’ statements in dumb agony, looked up at Thorne. "Bruce told me that he had stopped to see you, and Tuesday morning when I discovered Bruce lying in bed with his throat cut and recognized the razor, I—I—rushed to the telephone to ask you to come over, but Vera came and frightened me away before I got you."

Noyes struggled to sit up. Millicent’s statement had caught him off guard.

"You discovered Brainard’s murder on Tuesday morning?" he asked incredulously. "You went back to his bedroom again?"

Mitchell was the first to grasp the significance of Noyes’ remark.

"What’s this?" he demanded. "What do you mean to insinuate—that Miss Porter was in Bruce Brainard’s bedroom on Monday night?"

"She was," responded a voice from the doorway, and Wyndham, spinning around, saw[349] Dorothy Deane advancing into the room. She looked desperately ill and staggered rather than walked. "Millicent was seen in Bruce’s bedroom by her brother Craig," Dorothy added.

Her listeners eyed her in astonishment too deep for expression. Wyndham was the first to recover himself. "Come with me, dear," he said soothingly. "You are ill, delirious."

Dorothy shook off Wyndham’s detaining hand and walked over to Millicent. "Your brother saw you enter Bruce Brainard’s bedroom at two o’clock on Tuesday morning, and you carried a razor."

"You lie!" Noyes’ voice rang out bravely, but his agonized expression contradicted his words. "Craig Porter is a hopeless paralytic. He can neither leave his bed nor speak."

Dorothy did not shrink before his furious glare.

"True, Craig cannot speak and he cannot get out of bed," she admitted. "But he has regained the use of his first finger, and with that he signaled to me, using the Continental wireless code, that from his position in bed he can see what transpires in the next bedroom."

[350]"How?" demanded Mitchell.

"You remember that there is a huge old-fashioned mirror facing Craig; a similar mirror hangs directly opposite in the next bedroom and through the open transom over Craig’s bed whatever transpires in the next bedroom is reflected by one mirror from the angle at which it is hung into the other."

"Well, by—!" Mitchell stared dazedly at Dorothy. "And the bed Craig Porter occupies and the one Brainard occupied are backed against the wall which separates the two bedrooms, and both the mirrors face the beds."

Mrs. Porter, her face ashy, looked appealingly at Dorothy. "What did Craig see on Tuesday morning?" she mumbled rather than asked.

Vera, waiting breathlessly, was dimly conscious of Wyndham’s heavy breathing.

"Craig caught a glimpse of Millicent approaching the bed, a razor clasped tightly in her raised hand, then she disappeared out of his line of vision." Dorothy’s hands were opening and closing spasmodically; she dared not glance at Wyndham for fear of breaking down. Alan Noyes’ agony was pitiful to[351] witness as he sat forward striving to shield Millicent who crouched by his side, his one arm about her. Dorothy’s statement held her spellbound.

"Craig said a little time elapsed," went on Dorothy, and her voice sounded strained and harsh in the tense stillness. "Then the night light in Brainard’s bedroom was augmented by a powerful flashlight standing on the bed-table, and Craig saw the bed and Bruce lying in it with distinctness; he also saw a figure crouching by the bed, one hand groping for the razor which lay near Brainard. The next instant there was a sharp struggle and the murderer, straightening up, turned as if to listen, and faced the mirror— Don’t try to escape, Murray."

The footman, edging toward the door, before which stood the Secret Service operative, swallowed hard and sat down.

"The game’s up," he acknowledged insolently. "Well, which is going to claim the honor of arresting ‘Gentleman Charlie’—the Secret Service or Detective Headquarters? Don’t all speak at once, gentlemen," and his jeering laugh awoke the others from their stupor.

[352]
CHAPTER XXIII
OUT OF THE MAZE
WITH a bound Detective Mitchell was by the footman’s side; a click, and handcuffs dangled from his wrists. It seemed a useless precaution, as Murray evinced no desire to be troublesome but sat and regarded them with a sardonic grin.

"What’s the charge?" he demanded, ignoring Anthony’s presence at his other elbow.

"The murder of Bruce Brainard on Tuesday morning," responded the detective. "I warn you that anything you say will be used against you."

"Thanks." Murray grinned again. "Between Miss Dorothy and Mr. Craig you’ve got evidence enough to convict me."

Mrs. Porter, who had been gazing at the pseudo-footman in horrified amazement, found her voice.

"Do you mean to say that you killed my guest, Bruce Brainard?" she demanded.

[353]"That is what your son claims," answered Murray.

"Why did you kill him? You had seen him at my house many times before?" Mrs. Porter sat down in the nearest chair; she was weak from nervous strain and its reaction.

"Why did I kill Bruce?" Murray cleared his throat. "We had worked together years ago at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and he was the only man living who knew something of my subsequent career." Murray’s handcuffs jingled as he moved uneasily. "But Brainard never penetrated my disguise until Monday night when I assisted him into the library. He had overheard Miss Millicent’s quarrel with Dr. Noyes, and it brought on some sort of an attack. I was in my shirt sleeves, and in helping him inside the library he tore my sleeve and saw a tattoo mark which he had made on my arm while we were working together. He knew my record up to ten years ago. I told him that I had reformed and was trying to live a different life; and he promised to give me a chance, but I could see by his manner that he was planning to give Mrs. Porter a tip as to my real character."

[354]"I hardly think I would have believed him," affirmed Mrs. Porter faintly. "You have been a model servant all these years, Murray."

Murray looked gratified. "I flatter myself I played my part well, and in my leisure hours I fitted up the cabin and perfected a wonderful counterfeit."

"You did," agreed the Secret Service agent, "but you slipped up when you lost Miss Deane’s bag in the street car."

Murray shifted his position to look directly at Vera who stood somewhat behind Mrs. Porter and in the shadow of a high-back chair.

"It wasn’t Miss Deane’s bag," he admitted. "It was one I gave Cato—" Thorne started and gazed blankly at the counterfeiter.—"Don’t blame Cato, Dr. Thorne; he’s a faithful old darky with a fondness for collecting money. He believed me an eccentric inventor, and I paid him well for doing errands for me, as well as pledging him a share in my ‘patent rights,’ and it was by his aid that I got my material to the cabin. By the way," addressing Anthony, "the first shot you heard at the cabin today was fired by one of your sentries higher up the ridge at Cato,[355] and I suspect the old man’s running yet. I was looking in that direction while you were staring at the cabin and I saw the whole thing."

"How did my card come to be in the bag, Murray?" asked Vera.

"I found it among some old papers in Brainard’s overcoat. I burned the papers at the cabin, but your card was inadvertently slipped into the bag with the money Cato was taking to— That doesn’t interest you," with a sidelong glance at the detective, "so I won’t mention names."

Mitchell regarded him sourly for a second. "Cato can talk," he said meaningly, then turned to Vera. "Did you observe Murray’s flashlight in Brainard’s bedroom on Monday night, Miss Deane?"

"No." Vera moved a little forward and addressed them all. "I went some time after midnight to see how Mr. Brainard was getting on, and after my return to Craig’s bedroom I sat almost with my back to the mirror and sideways to the bed in a big wing chair. I did not glance upward toward the transom but recall staring steadily at Craig, whom I could see but dimly, and all the while I[356] thought of nothing but Bruce Brainard’s treatment of my sister." Vera paused a second to steady her voice, then continued: "It seemed bitter irony that I should be nursing him. The news that he and Millicent might be engaged shocked me, and I was only waiting until the morning to tell Mrs. Porter all that I knew about Bruce." She stopped to clear her voice which had grown husky.

"At about three o’clock or a little after I went into Bruce’s room and was astounded to find the night light out. I felt my way to the bed and over to the table, found a box of matches and relit the candle." Her eyes grew large with horror as the gruesome scene came vividly before her. "The sight of Bruce lying there dead deprived me of my voice, almost of my reason. Some minutes passed before I could pull myself together, then glancing down I saw that in searching for the matches I had brushed against the side of the bed and that my skirt was blood-stained." Vera stumbled in her speech. "The last time I saw Bruce I told him that I hoped he would meet with a violent death—that was five years ago—and my spoken wish had been fulfilled."

[357]"Vera," Dorothy approached her sister and clasped her tenderly, "don’t talk any more."

"I must," feverishly. "My first coherent idea after discovering that Bruce was really dead and beyond human assistance was to remove the bloodstains from my skirt; later I went to summon Dr. Noyes and found him gone. Mr. Mitchell," turning to him, "when I realized that you and Dr. Thorne suspected that I had discovered Bruce’s murder some time before I went in search of assistance, I dared not tell you about the bloodstains, fearing you would think that I had killed him. God knows I had sufficient motive, knowing all that my sister had endured at his hands. Frankly, I believed that Hugh, knowing all this, had killed Bruce, and I tried to shield him—forgive the suspicion, Hugh—"

Without speaking, Wyndham wrung her hands warmly. "Don’t ask my pardon; I thought you guilty," he confessed shamefacedly, "and from the same motive."

Mitchell was about to speak when Millicent rose and approached Murray. She shrank slightly on meeting the counterfeiter’s eyes, but asked gently:

"Murray, I have always been kind to you.[358] Will you not do me the justice to state that I was not in the room—that Craig was mistaken when he saw me just before you killed Bruce?"

"But you were there," objected Murray.

"I was not," and she stamped her foot. "I would have been aware of it, Murray."

"No, you wouldn’t, because you were sleep-walking." Murray’s statement brought a cry, a glad cry from Noyes.

"I caught a glimpse of you, Millicent," he broke in before the amazed girl could speak, "just as I went down to the library to wait for my telephone call. You were coming out of your mother’s boudoir and I saw something glitter in your hand, but was too far away to make out in the dim hall light what you were carrying. Thinking you were going to your brother’s room I went downstairs."

"How long did you remain in the library?" asked Mitchell.

"Until nearly four o’clock. Before returning to my room I went to see how Brainard was getting along, and was stupefied to find him dead." Noyes chose his words with care. "I recognized the razor as one of a set which Mrs. Porter had given me that[359] morning. I remembered that I had left the set in her boudoir, and recalled my glimpse of Millicent, and that she was advancing toward Brainard’s door; I feared that in a moment of mental aberration she had killed him. The thought was agony." Noyes almost broke down as he met Millicent’s adoring eyes. "I decided that if I left the house I might be thought guilty; the razor was mine, I had threatened to kill Brainard, so I went—"

"But not before I saw you coming from Bruce’s bedroom," added Millicent. "I had no idea I had been walking in my sleep, for I awoke in my bed, and being unable to sleep I got up and partly dressed, intending to go in and sit with Vera and my brother. Your expression, Alan, as you walked away from Bruce’s bedroom terrified me, and gathering my courage I went there—saw Bruce—the razor—" She caught her breath—

"Recalling your threat to kill Bruce, I imagined you had carried it out," she went on, as no one spoke. "I crept back to my bedroom, horrified beyond words, and later it occurred to me that perhaps Bruce was not beyond medical aid, and I rushed downstairs to telephone Dr. Thorne—" She stopped,[360] unable to go on. "I secured the set of razors and first hid them in an old trunk in the attic, then in the cannon—the rest you know."

Noyes, rising with some difficulty, stepped forward, and with a manner not to be denied, slipped his one arm about her waist, and led her across the room. Dorothy, standing nearest the heavy mahogany door as it slowly closed behind the pair, saw Millicent’s head droop forward and her discreet ears alone caught Noyes’ low whisper:

"Mine, at last!"

Silence prevailed in the library for some minutes after the departure of Millicent and her lover, then Thorne turned to Murray.

"Was Miss Millicent in the room when you killed Brainard?" he asked.

"No, she had gone out some minutes before," answered Murray, his voice slightly strained. "I went in to see Brainard just to talk things over with him. He was lying half asleep, and when Miss Millicent appeared I was waiting in one corner of the room. Brainard must have heard her entrance, for he looked at her, half terrified and half hypnotized. Finally, after staring at him, she dropped the razor on the bed and left[361] the room. Then I crept over to the bed, and the sight of the razor put the devil into me. I knew Brainard would squeal on me as soon as he felt well enough to think things over; he would never believe that I had reformed, and my blood boiled at the prospect of arrest and losing the results of my work at the cabin and in Mrs. Porter’s town house. I got the razor—" He shuddered, and did not complete the sentence.

Mitchell stirred uneasily and eyed Murray askance. "When you found the cabin was in the hands of the Secret Service why didn’t you clear out instead of coming back here?" he demanded.

"Because it never dawned on me that Brainard’s murder could be traced to me," admitted Murray; dejection as well as fear had crept into his manner. "I knew you would find no incriminating papers at the cabin, and old Cato is faithful—he would not have told on me. I could not bear to run away, in itself a confession of guilt, and leave my life work behind me."

"So much for over-confidence," commented Mitchell dryly. "Come along, Murray."

Murray got to his feet slowly, and his bow[362] to the company was not without a certain dignity. "Good-by, ma’am," he said, addressing Mrs. Porter. "You’ve always treated me well during the seven years I’ve lived with you. Tell Mr. Craig I don’t bear him malice." And he vanished through the door as Mrs. Porter, her overwrought feelings mastering her, fainted for the first time in her life.

An hour later Dorothy, speeding through the lower hall, was intercepted by Thorne.

"Will you please tell your sister that I would like to see her for a few minutes?" he said. "I will wait in the drawing-room."

Without wasting words, Dorothy, a mischievous smile dimpling her cheeks, hurried upstairs. As she turned from delivering Thorne’s message to Vera she encountered Hugh Wyndham, who was waiting for her in his aunt’s boudoir.

"Dorothy"—Wyndham stood tall and straight before her—"Jacob served seven years for Rachel—the desire of his heart; how long must I serve for mine?"

Dorothy’s roguish smile, so long lost in the care and turmoil of her daily life, lit her charming face as she answered:

"Just as long as it will require to get Vera’s[363] permission. No, wait," as Wyndham, hardly able to believe such swift capitulation, sprang toward the door. "You may set the date, Hugh."

Down in the drawing-room the minutes passed on leaden feet for Thorne. Would Vera never come? He finally turned in despair and found her watching him from the doorway.

He was by her side instantly, and held out a black-edged visiting-card.

"You sent me this, Vera, as you said—‘In grateful remembrance’—for the little aid I was able to render your mother when she was stricken in the street with heart failure. Later, in Philadelphia I saw you, but was too shy to introduce myself, but I have never forgotten my first glimpse of you. I have always treasured the card and your picture, possessed by a strong conviction that we should some day meet again.

"Two months ago I heard that Bruce Brainard had eloped with a Miss Deane of Washington, and I stupidly jumped to the conclusion that it was you. It never occurred to me that it might be your sister. The thought that you were innocently involved[364] in Brainard’s murder was torture to me, and I could not rest until the real criminal was arrested and you were entirely exonerated.

"You must know and realize how passionately I love you." His voice was very tender, and her eyes fell before his ardent look. "I have little to offer, Vera. Is there any hope for me?"

Vera’s lovely eyes were alight with happiness as she looked up at him. "There’s more than hope," she whispered, and the words were lost against his shoulder; then she looked bravely upward and their lips met in the first kiss of love.
